Newsgroups: rec.food.cooking,rec.food.recipes
From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
Subject: Appetizers (Long)
Message-ID: <D7ZMR6J@taronga.com>
Organization: Taronga Park BBS
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 1993 14:12:09 GMT
Lines: 1580


Ciliegine Con Prosciutto

Small, cherry-sized balls of cow's milk mozzarella, packed in sealed 
plastic containers are available in the dairy section of many supermarkets 
or speciality stores.

1/2 medium lemon
1 medium garlic clove
2 tbl snipped fresh chives
1/4 cup olive oil
1/4 tsp hot red-pepper flakes
9 ounces fresh mozzarella "cherries" or fresh mozzarrella
15 thin prosciutto slices (6 ounces) If you can find Parma it's
worth the extra money.
1 medium bunch dill

Squeeze lemon juice into a medium bowl.  Peel and crush garlic and put
it into the bowl along with the chives, olive oil, and red-pepper
flakes.  Drain and add cheese "cherries" or cut mozzarella into 3/4-
inch cubes and add to the mixture.  Marinate at room temperature at
least 2 hours. (Can cover and refrigerate overnight).  Cut
prosciutto slices in half lengthwise.  Wrap 1 slice of
prosciutto around each piece of cheese and 1 small sprig of dill.
Secure with a toothpick and serve. Let me know if you want any
others.  I have many.  Or if it is something special you
are looking for.  I would be happy to help you knock the
socks off of your aunt.


Baked Brie

Also, baked Brie is fabulous.  If you want to get fancy with the brie, 
saute some mushrooms with tarragon, garlic and a bit of wine until the 
mixture is almost dry (the mushrooms should be sliced or chopped, by the
by), take a wheel of brie, slice it in half, put the mushroom mix in the 
middle, and wrap it in phyllo or puff pastry (the frozen puff pastry works 
fine).  Put in the freezer for 20 minutes to firm everything up.  

At this point, it can be moved to the fridge and kept until needed.  Bake 
it in a moderate oven until the puff pastry browns.  Let sit for 15-20 
minutes before cutting.

You can also use puff pasty scraps to cut out little leaves and stuff to put
on top of the whole thing for decoration.  This is best with the small wheels,
about 5 inches in diameter.


Shrimp wrapped in pea pods

Steam the peas so they're limp.  Boil and peel the shrimp, leaving the 
tails on.  Wrap each shrimp in a pea pod and skewer with a fancy toothpick 
to keep it on.  Have a couple of dipping sauces. 


 Puff Pastry Calzone with Chevre & Artichoke Hearts.

1 PKG frozen pastry shells (6), defrosted
8 oz. Chevre cheese, crumbled or feta cheese
1/4 cup cut up onion slices
8 ounces marinated artichoke hearts, drained & chopped
2 Tablespoons sliced black olives
grated paremasan cheese

Stack 3 pastry shells together & roll them out to measure 8" (this makes
a big one you can do it like this & have people cut off a slice or make
little ones).

Place pastry on a lightly greased cookie sheet.
                               
When you defrost shells don't let them get too soft - just so they are 
still chilled.

Combine the next 4 ingredients & place in center of pastry leaving a 1"
border along the edge.  (you can also add some garlic to the mixture)

Roll out the remaining shells in the same fashion & place over the filling.
Press & sel the edges with the tines of a fork.  Scallop them in a
decorative fashion.  Pierce top with fork & brush tip with a little water
& sprinkle with a little grated parmesan cheese.

You can either bake it now or put it in the fridge until the next day if
need be.

Bake in a 400 oven for about 25 minutes or until top is a deep golden brown.
place in a platter & cut into wedges to serve.  Serves about 6.

If you assemble this in advance that's fine but don't bake it until just
before serving.


Russian Stuffed Eggs

1 doz. large (jumbo) eggs
1/2 lbs large mushrooms
1 bunch parsly
ground black pepper
Mayonnaise (I used Cholestrol Free Kraft)

Boil the eggs for 10 minutes or more (until they're hard)
let them cool off completely.

Chop the mushrooms very finely (a good food processor will help) 
The goal is to have about 2 cups of chopped mushrooms for every
dozen eggs.

Chop 1/2 cup of parsly (very very fine, food processor type fine)

Cut the eggs in half and take out the yolks. Mix the egg yolks with 
the mushrooms, parsly and add a tea spoon full of black pepper. 

Add 1/2 cup mayonnaise and stir the whole thing. You should have a 
grey, mushroomy paste. 

Stuff each hollow egg half with heaping teaspoon of the paste. Put
a tiny little bit of mayo on top and stick a parsly leaf on.
Refrigerate before serving. 

Most people grabbed 3 - 4 halves, so plan accordingly. 
If you're handy around the kitchen, 3 dozens of this should not
take you more than 1 hour and you can prepare this hours ahead.


Boboli pizza

1  Boboli (Italian crust in the shape of pizza pre-made up)
   Pesto sauce
   sun dried tomatoes
   grated cheese (Monterey Jack works great)

Spread the pesto sauce on the boboli.  Lay the sun dried tomatoes on 
top (I laid them on paper towels to get some of the excess oil off).
Cover top with grated cheese.  Bake at 450 for 10 minutes or until 
cheese is melted.  Cut in diamond shapes, then cut shapes in half to 
get finger-sized triangles.  Serve warm.


Savory Egg Rolls: (makes around 56 small rolls)

 	1 Medium Carrot (Julienned)
 	6 - 8 Scallions (chopped)
	2 Medium Cloves of Garlic (crushed)
	1/2 Lb. White Mushrooms (chopped) or Shitake if you're from Palm Beach
	3/4 Lb. Spinach (stemmed and broken up)
	10 oz. Cooked Salmon (canned, or preferrably fresh)
	12 - 15 medium to large shrimp (peeled, deveined, and chopped)
	2 Tbsp. Chinese Cooking Wine or Dry Sherry
	2 Tbsp. Dark Soy Sauce (Kikkoman?)
	1 Lb. Package of Won Ton Wrappers
	About 1/2 Package of "White Sauce" mix (for thickener)
	Salt and Pepper to taste
	1 - 2 Cups Vegetable oil (for deep frying)

Filling Preparation:
In a fairly large sauce pan or fry pan, saute garlic, scallions, and carrot 
in a little oil until vegetables are limp. Add wine, soy sauce, spinach,
seafood and mushrooms and stir fry, while breaking up the salmon into
small pieces. Be careful not to overcook. Shrimp should turn pink and 
mushrooms and spinach should have rendered their liquid and gone soft.
Add some of the White Sauce mix a little at a time until good consitency
is reached, and ingredients stick together (like stuffing). Let this
mixture cool before making the rolls.

Stuffing and Frying:
Lay out a sheet of wax paper for a work area, and have within reach a saucer
with a little water. It's best to do three at a time, I found. Place about
a well rounded teaspoon of filling in the lower third of each Won Ton wrapper.
Then fold the two sides part way over the mixture. Wet your finger in
the saucer
and use it to moisten the top end of the wrapper. Roll it up and seal it.
For frying, put enough oil in the pan to just cover the rolls. Fry for 3-5
minutes each until golden brown. You can fry maybe 5-8 at a time depending
on the size of the pan. Turn each occasionally to check doneness and color.
Drain on paper towels.

Dipping Sauce:
This one goes well. Just mix about 2 Tbsps. of Grey Poupon (or similar)
mustard with 1 Tsp. honey and 1 Tbsp. dark soy sauce.

These are not so difficult to make as it may seem. The worst part is the
wrapping, but that might take only 15 minutes or so once you get adept
and have a little practice. These rolls reheat well by  low temp (325)
oven or microwave. Heat before serving, but they're OK at room temp.


Mini Quiche

Prepare a double batch of pie crust or purchase a pie crust
mix.  Roll out and cut in circles using a donut cutter or
cooking cutter.  Place circles into bottom of muffin pan so
that pie crust curls up the sides by about 1/4 inch.  Fill
with any combo of filling.  I used bacon, mushrooms, onions,
and swiss for one filling.  The other was broccoli, onions 
and cheddar cheese.  Place just enough filling so it does 
not go above lip of crust.  Beat 2 eggs and 3/4 cup sour
cream.  Spoon 1 teasp. of egg mixture over each quiche.

Bake for 20-25 min in 375 oven.  
Reheat defrosted quiche for 10 min in a 400 oven.


A Different sort of Rumaki....

Shrimp ( usually use the med size prawns, fresh is better)
*Pepper* Bacon (really really it makes a difference)
A full large head of garlic
several lemons and limes
1 -2 tsp dried red pepper

Peel and devein the shrimp. Marinate them with all the garlic (peeled
and crushed), the red pepper and enough of equal amounts
of fresh lime and lemon juice to cover all the shrimp. Marinate in
the 'fridge for 3-6 hours. I usually do this in the morning and let them
go all day.

After marinating, drain the shrimp (If you are grilling outside
I recommend that you save the marinade and baste with it) and cut the
bacon strips in half. Wrap the bacon around the shrimp and secure
with a toothpick. Either grill over mesquite basting with
the reserved marinade (the favored method) or broil in the oven. 
You may pre-grill these and refrigerate, then warm in the broiler
prior to serving. In fact, I think they even taste better that way!


Layered Bread Loaves

order loaves of bread from a bakery (or bake yourself if you're
really ambitious).  you can even ask them to make them in pastel
shades if you're so inclined.  just ask them to slice the bread
horizontally for you ... so you have about 5 or 6 long slices.
trim the crust and spread/stuff/fill with whatever you like.  i've
used pate, cream cheese (again, tinted if you want) with chopped
olives, cherries, nuts, whatever ... or you can use any one of the
prepared flavored cream cheeses in the supermarket.  roll up,
fasten with toothpicks, wrap first in saran, then in foil (the
saran keeps the foil from getting stuck to the rolls), and freeze
for an hour or so.  remove from the freezer an hour or so before
you're going to serve them and slice.  you have pretty little
pinwheel-looking things.


Mushroom sandwiches

this one takes a little longer.  chop up some fresh mushrooms and
onions, and saute in butter, margarine, oil, whatever until the
onions are clear.  drain and set aside until cool.  on cocktail
bread (rye or pumpernickel), pile a mound of mushrooms and onions,
grated swiss cheese, grated italian cheese (i use locatella), and
bread crumbs.  broil until the swiss melts, and serve immediately.



Filled Tortillas

6 flour tortillas (El Ranchito brand work best)
Salsa (optional)
1 pkg (12-16 oz) cream cheese (softened)
1 1/2 tbl chopped black olives (measurement is a guess)
4 jalipinios chopped fine (fresh are better than canned) (more or less to taste)
1/4-1/2 tsp chili powder
3/4 tsp Johnnys (or other) seasoning salt

Mix softened (can be done in the microwave) cream cheese, olives, jalipinos,
chili powder, and seasoning salt.  Spread a thin layer on tortilla going
all the way out to the edges.  Roll tortilla. Repeat for each tortilla.   
At this point you can either put them in a plastic bag in the refrigerator 
and save until you are ready to serve them, or serve immediately.
(Sometimes I warm them for a few seconds in the microwave to soften, other
times I serve cold). Cut into 1/2" slices before serving.  Can be dipped
into salsa.


	Crab Puffs
		1 pkg. wanton skins
		8 oz. cream cheese
		7 1/2 oz. crab
		2 tsp. soft breadcrumbs
		2 drops sesame oil

Combine all ingredients except skins.  Fill squares with 1 tsp. of the
mixture and fold over, making triangles.  Moisten to seal edges.  Fry
in oil heated to 370 F for 3 minutes, or until brown and puffed,
turning once.  Serve with Chinese mustard.


	Mexican Stuffed Mushrooms

		1 lb. hot sausage 
		1/3 c. soy sauce
		1 clove garlic
		2 lbs. LARGE mushrooms

Mix together the first 3 ingredients.  Stuff mushrooms.  Bake at 350 F
for 20 minutes or until sausage is done.


	Fresh Fruit Dip

		8 oz. cream cheese, softened
		1/2 c. lemon yogurt
		1/2 tsp. vanilla
		1/2 c. coconut, toasted
		3 tbl. milk

In a small mixer bowl beat together the cream cheese, lemon yogurt,
honey, and vanilla till smooth.  Stir in the coconut and milk.  Turn
into serving bowl.  Cover and chill in the refrigerator till cold.
Serve with slices of fresh fruit.



	Filo Dough Triangles

2 boxes (2 pounds) Filo pastry leaves
1 to 1+1/2 pounds unsalted butter, melted and slightly cooled
3 batches of FILLING(s) (see below)

Melt the butter.  Take a filo leaf, lay it out flat, and brush it
with melted butter.  Put another leaf on top of this one and butter
it as well.  Cut this into four long strips (the dough is usually
18x24, so when you cut it, you should get four 4.5x24 strips).  For
each strip, put a spoonful of filling at the top, and then flag-fold
the strip into a triangle with the filling inside.  Repeat until you
run out of either the filling or the filo leaves.

Slash the tops of the triangles -- be careful not to cut through to
the filling.

Bake these at 450 degrees F. for about twenty to twenty-five minutes.
(Basically, you just want to make them golden-brown.)


Roquefort-Leek filling

1/2 cup minced leeks (about two leeks)
3 tbsp butter
2 oz. Roquefort cheese
2/3 cup Ricotta cheese
1 egg-yolk
Salt and pepper if you want

Cut the green tops off the leeks;  discard.  Quarter the leeks down
their long axis, and rinse well in a pot of water.  Now mince finely.
Saut'e in the butter until tender.  Crumble the roquefort and mix in;
also stir in the ricotta.  If you really feel that you *must* add a
bit of salt, and you don't mind that it's going to ruin your blood
pressure, besides clogging your arteries with the cholesterol from
the butter and cheeses, (:-) then add some.  Same with the pepper. :-)

Mix well.  Fills up about 24-30 triangles.


Three-Cheese filling with Pepperoni

1/2 cup Ricotta cheese
3 tbsp grated mozzarella
3 tbsp freshly grated Parmesan
1/4 cup very finely chopped pepperoni
1 egg yolk
Salt and pepper if you want

Mix everything together.  Fills up about 24-30 triangles.


Crab filling

8 oz. fresh crab meat
3 tbsp butter
3 tbsp shallots, finely chopped
1 tbsp sherry
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
Salt and pepper if you want

Melt butter, saut'e shallots until soft but not browned.  Add the crab and
sherry, saut'e or 30 seconds.  Stir in the rest, let cool.  Fills up about
24-30 triangles.


Curried Lamb filling

8 oz lean boneless lamb
3 tbsp butter
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1 clove garlic, minced
1-2 tsp curry powder
1/4 tsp ground coriander
a pinch of cayenne pepper
Salt and pepper if you want

Chop lamb into 1/4 inch pieces.  Melt 2 tbsp butter in a pan and brown
lamb over medium-high heat.  Move lamb to a bowl, and saut'e the onion,
garlic, curry, and coriander until soft.  Stir in lamb and season to
taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne.  Fills up about 24-30 triangles.


MEXICAN APPETIZER

1 (8 oz) package cream cheese, softened
1/2 jar thick and chunky picante sauce
1/2 jar dried beef, chopped
8-10 flour tortilla shells
1 C cheese, grated
Paprika

Mix cream cheese, picante sauce and dried beef until creamy. (You may
chop the dried beef in a food processor, then add the other two
ingredients and mix.) Place one tortilla shell on serving dish and
spread with a layer of the mixture.  Repeat this process until you have
a stack of 8 to 10 tortilla shells with cream cheese layers between.
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.  Cut into wedges to
serve.  Sprinkle with grated cheese and paprika.  If desired, serve
with sour cream, guacamole, or extra picante sauce on the side.

The grated cheese can also be added to the cream cheese mixture rather
than sprinkled on top.


CRAB RANGOON

1 or 2 packages (8 ounces) Neufchatel cheese, softened (or cream cheese)
     {amount based on how "cheesy" you want them}
1 can (6 ounces) crab meat, drained and flaked
2 green onions including tops, thinly sliced
1 clove garlic, minced
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
1/2 teaspoon lite soy sauce
1 package (48 count) won ton skins
vegetable spray coating

In medium bowl, combine all ingredients except won ton skins and spray
coating; mix until well blended. (To prevent won ton skins from drying
out, prepare one or two rangoon at a time.) Place 1 teaspoon filling in
center of each won ton skin. Moisten edges with water; fold in half to
form triangle, pressing edges to seal. Pull bottom corners down and
overlap slightly; moisten one corner and press to seal. Lightly spray
baking sheet with vegetable coating. Arrange rangoon on sheet and lightly
spray to coat. Bake in 425 degree oven for 12 to 15 minutes, or until
golden brown. Serve hot with sweet-sour sauce or mustard sauce. 

Makes 48 appetizers.
NOTE: Rangoon can also be fried in oil. 


Spicy Phyllo Cups

6 sheets phyllo pastry
1 T olive oil
1 onion, finely chopped
1/4 cup pine nuts
2 cloves of garlic, crushed
1 t ground cumin
1 t ground cardamom
1/8 t cayenne pepper
1/4 t ground cinnamon
1/4 pound mushrooms, chopped
1/3 cup raisins, chopped
1 T olive oil
1/2 pound rump steak, chopped (I used tenderloin)
black pepper
chives

Stack three sheets of phyllo dough on a work surface.  For cups, use a 
three inch round tart pan or mold to cut out circles, and then place 
the circles in 2 1/4" tart pans.  For boats, use a 4 1/2 x 2" boat-shaped 
tart mold as a guide and place the phyllo into 3 1/2 x 1 1/2" boat-shaped 
molds.  Cut out approximately 30 cups or boats.

Bake at 425 for 6-8 minutes.  They should be golden brown.  Remove carefully 
from the molds and cool on a wire rack.

Heat 1 T olive oil in a frying pan.  Cook onion over medium-low heat until 
soft but not browned (5-6 minutes).  Add the pine nuts the garlic, and the 
cumin, cardamom, cayenne, and cinammon.
Cook 2-3 minutes.  Add mushrooms and cook until soft.  Add raisins.
Transfer to a plate.

Heat 1 T olive oil in the frying pan.  Stir-fry the steak until it changes 
color.  Add the mushroom mixture and combine.  Season with pepper, and salt 
if desired.  Spoon filling into cups or boats.  Sprinkle with cut chives.
Serve warm.


     Brie En Croate
 
      1 ea Brie round            
      1 ea Pastry dough    
      1 ea Egg            
      2 T  Milk    
 
     Completely enclose cheese in pastry.  Make egg wash of egg and milk.
  Put brie on baking sheet with seam side of dough down.  Brush with egg
  wash.  Cut garnish of leaves, flowers, etc., from scraps of pastry and
  decorate top of Brie.  Bake at 350F about 30 minutes or until golden
  brown.
 

      Cheese puffs
 
      8 ea Slices white bread           
      2 c  Milk 
      8 oz Old English cheese slices    
    1/2 t  Pepper 
    3/4 t  Dry mustard            
    1/4 c  Butter, melted 
      1 t  Salt            
      3 ea Eggs 
 
  May be prepared the day before.
  At least 4 hours before cooking, trim crusts and cut bread into 1"
  squares. Cut cheese into bite size pieces. In large greased casserole,
  alternate layers of bread and cheese. Pour melted butter over top. Bea
  eggs well, stir in salt, pepper, mustard and milk. Combine thoroughly.
  Pour over casserole. Cover and refrigerate.  One hour before serving, bake
  at 350 degrees, 30 minutes covered, then 30 minutes uncovered until top is
  golden and puffy.
 

Goat Cheese Spread
    6 cloves garlic (unpeeled)
    1 Tbsp olive oil
    1/2 Lb. fresh goat cheese (e.g. Montrachet)(any other suggestions??)
    1/3 C drained oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes, cut julienne

    Preheat oven to 350 F.  Toss whole cloves with oil in heavy small
baking dish.  Bake until soft and brown, about 15 min.  Cool slightly. 
Slip skins off garlic; transfer to medium bowl and mash to paste.  Mix
in goat cheese and tomatoes.  Can be prepared 4 days ahead; refrigerate.
 Let stand 1 hr before serving.


Olive-Caper Spread
    1/2 C pitted black Kalamata olives
    3 Tbsp olive oil
    1 Tbsp chopped fresh basil
    1 Tbsp drained capers
    2 garlic cloves, minced
    
    Puree olives with oil, basil, capers and garlic in processor. 
Transfer to bowl.  Can be prepared 4 days ahead; refrigerate.  Let stand
one hr. at room temp before serving.


Croutons (for spreads)
    1 8-ounce French baguette, in 1/2 inch slices
    1/4 C (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted

    Preheat oben to 400 F.  Arrange bread slices on baking sheet.  Brush
both sides with butter.  Bake until crisp and golden brown, about 10
min.  Cool slightly.  Can be prepared 1 day ahead.  Cool completely;
store in plastic bag at room temp.



Spring-Fresh Hors d'ovres

Endive leaves, separated
Cream cheese plus another cheese for flavoring (roquefort, goat,
	gruyere, or other cheese of your choice)
Fresh herbs (thyme, rosemary, parsley combination is nice)
Garlic powder (just a bit)
Fresh chives (leave in their lengthy state; don't chop)
Smoked salmon
Red bell pepper

Chop some fresh herbs and set aside.  Process together cream
cheese and second cheese of your choice.  Now cream together in
a bowl the cheese mixture, herbs, and a bit of garlic powder to
taste.  (You may also add some salt, white ground black pepper,
or even cayenne pepper if you like.)  Put into a pastry bag and
fit with an attractive piping attachment (I use the "scallop edge"
attachment).  Pipe the cheese in a line along the length of the
endive "boat".  Do this until all endive leaves or cheese mixture
is used.  Now top off each by placing on top of the piped cheese
length:  1 strand of chive (cut shorter as necessary), a bit of
minced red bell pepper, and a small strip of smoked salmon.
Place all "boats" on a lined cookie sheet, cover with plastic
wrap, and refrigerate until ready to serve.  Very attractive
& quite artistic.


Sourdough Baguettes

A great little cafe in Reno (yeah, we don't all eat in casinos) serves
little sourdough baguette slices topped with, in order, cream cheese,
pesto sauce, and roasted red pepper slices, and its wild!!

My wife and I have made it a few times, and now that roasted red
peppers are readily available in jars from most supermarkets, it's a
pretty easy task. Just soften the cream cheese, spread a nice little
layer on the sourdough slice, then a dolop of your favorite pesto, and
a little slice of red pepper. People with an aversion to raw fish have
to be assured that the red pepper really is vegetal matter, and not
something of the sea, as it has an almost lox-like appearance.



	bacon and cream cheese stuffed mushrooms

8 oz. cream cheese, softened
4-6 strips of bacon, fried and crumbled; reserve fat
1 small onion, finely chopped
20-25 large mushrooms, stems removed
about 8 mushroom stems, finely chopped

saute onion and mushroom stems in bacon fat until tender. drain off excess
fat.  mix crumbled bacon, onion and stems with softened cream cheese until
the mixture is workable.

stuff each mushroom and bake at 350 deg. f for 10-15 minutes.
finish under the broiler just until tops are golden.


bstila - moroccan chicken/nut pie

brown 1/2 lb blanched almonds in a little oil until golden.  chop
coarsely or pound with a mortar and pestle.  add 1/2 tsp cinnamon
and (optionally) honey or sugar to sweeten to taste (anc adds none
but cites recipes calling for up to 1/2c sugar--i favor a little
honey as the contrast of the sweetness with the savory chicken is
part of the exotic appeal of the dish).  set aside.

heat 1 tbsp clarified butter and 1/3 cup butter in a large heavy 
pot.  add 1 minced medium onion and saute for a few minutes.  add 
chicken meat equivalent to about 1/2 chicken (e.g. two boneless 
breasts), cut in small pieces (as for a pot pie), along with:

1/2 tsp pepper
1 pinch saffron (or, per ongoing thread, 1/2 tsp turmeric)
1/2 tsp cinnamon
3/4 cup minced parsley
1/4 cup minced coriander (cilantro, chinese parsley)
salt to taste

simmer until the chicken is done.  beat 2 eggs and slowly stir them 
into the sauce.  remove from heat.

have ready phillo sheets, melted butter (at least 1/4 lb), and a pastry
brush.  select a shallow baking pan about 8" in diameter, such as an iron
skillet.  what you basically want to do is construct a pie by layering
the phillo sheets in the pan and then folding them over the contents; it
will probably be easiest if you cut the sheets in half or smaller, for
instance into long rectangles about the width of the pan and twice as long.
brush one of the sheets with melted butter, and put it, butter side up,
in the bottom of the pan, the excess dangling over the side.  add another
sheet, at an angle to the first, and repeat so that you have phillo
covering the bottom of the pan and dangling out all around (this is hard
to describe).  use about 5 sheets to form this layer.  repeat the process,
forming another layer.  now pour the chicken and sauce into the pan.  put
several more buttered sheets on top of the chicken, this time not
overlapping the edge--use smaller pieces or fold them in half.  spread
the nut mixture on top of this.  put another layer or so of phillo, then
fold the dangling ends over the top so as to close the envelope.  (your
mileage may vary on the number and details of layering the sheets).  brush
the top with butter.  at this point the bstila can be refrigerated if
desired (this is time-consuming and you may wish to do all this the day
before serving).

just before serving, put the pan in a 350-degree oven for 15-20 minutes
until the top is golden: flip it onto an oven-proof plate (or use an
ordinary plate to flip it over back into the skillet) and return to brown
the other side, 30-40 minutes total.  place on a serving platter, sprinkle
with powdered sugar, then make fanciful decorative designs with ground
cinnamon.  (when i had this in a restaurant it said something like "eat
me").


    thai bbq chicken appetizers

   3 lbs chicken wing drummettes

marinade:
   1/4 cup coarsely chopped garlic
   roots and lower stems of one bunch cilantro, chopped (about 1 tbsp - shop
       for a bunch that still has some roots attached)
   1 tsp ground turmeric
   1 tsp curry powder
   1.5 tsp ground dried chilis (cayenne or equivalent)
   1 tbsp sugar
   1/4 tsp salt
   3 tbsp thai fish sauce (filipino or vietnamese is ok, too)

basting liquid:
   1/2 cup coconut milk (canned is ok)

garnish:
   cilantro sprigs (left over from making marinade)
   dipping sauce (see recipe below).

process all marinade ingredients in a blender until smooth.  marinate
chicken, refrigerated, overnight.  grill over hot coals until done, brushing
frequently with coconut milk.  serve garnished with cilantro sprigs,
accompanied by steamed rice and bowls of dipping sauce.


   dipping sauce for bbq chicken

   1/2 tsp dried chili flakes or cayenne
   2 cloves garlic, coarsely chopped
   1 tbsp brown sugar
   1/4 tsp salt

   1/2 cup chinese red rice vinegar

   a thinly sliced green onion
   1 tbsp coarsely chopped cilantro leaves


pound first 4 ingredients to a paste with mortar and pestle, then dissolve
in vinegar.  alternatively, put it all in a blender and blend until smooth.
float the green onions and cilantro on top.


trota piccante - 8 servings

2 pounds whole trout, gutted
3 t flour
1 c olive oil
2 med. onions, peeled and chopped
8 med. cloves garlic, peeled and minced
2 med. jalapeno peppers, seeded and minced
2 med. bunches cilantro, washed, dried and chopped
2 t hot red pepper flakes
1 t salt
2 1/2 lemons, juiced
1/4 c pine nuts, toasted

1.	remove head, tail and fins from the trout and discard.  wash with
water and rub over all surfaces with a cut lemon.  (or save the lemon peels
after juicing and use those.)  pat dry with paper towels and dredge in flour.
2.	in a very large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat until
very hot.  fry the trout 4 to 5 minutes on each side, or until done.  remove
from the pan and cool on paper towels.  reserve the oil. 
3.	remove the skin and bones from the trout and crumble into small
pieces.  set aside.
4.	strain the oil into another saute pan and cook the onions until
translucent.  add the garlic, jalapeno, cilantro, coriander and hot pepper
flakes. cook over low heat for 3 minutes.  
5.	stir in the pine nuts.  transfer to a bowl and chill.  serve cold 
as an appetizer.



galloping horses (thai appetizer)      servings:  8-10

1   t.        oil                      1   lb.   ground pork
4-8 cloves    garlic, finely chopped   3   green onions, white part, chopped
1/3 c.        sugar                    1/2 tsp.  pepper
3/4 c.        roasted salted peanuts   1   fresh pineapple, or
              lettuce leaves           5         tangerines, or
              mint or coriander leaves 4         oranges
			  chopped chilis

    grind peanuts.  heat oil in a frying pan, add pork, garlic and onions.
cook until pink color disappears.  drain off most of the fat.  add sugar and
pepper, cook 1-2 minutes.  add peanuts, mix in well, then remove from heat.
cool to room temperature.
	prepare platter, lining with lettuce leaves.  peel and segment the
citrus fruit if used, cutting each segment down to the back and fanning
open to form a circle.  if using pineapple, cut off top leaves and outer skin,
as thinly as possible, from top down.  look at the "eye" pattern, as it forms
a spiral down the pineapple.  cut the spirals with a sharp knife held at
about a 45 degree angle.  cut off bottom.  cut pineapple into about 5 or 6
wedges and then cut each of those into 1/4 inch slices.  arrange fruit on
platter.
	mound meat mixture onto fruit, and decorate with other garnishes.  serve
at room temperature, or chilled.


               chicken pastry or b'stila


1 chicken
salt, fresh black pepper
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
pinch of saffron
a tablespoon of mixed herbs or "bouquet garni"
3 large onions, peeled and minced
3 tablespoons oil
1/2 cup butter, margarine or diet margarine, clarified
7 eggs beaten
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped cilantro or parsley
2 cups ground toasted almonds
1 tablespoon cinnamon
12 filo dough sheets
1/4 cup powdered sugar.

place chicken in a roasting pan.  if you use saffron threads, let them soak
in half a cup of water.  pour on fowl.  sprinkle salt, pepper, turmeric and
mixed herbs on top.  roast chicken in oven at 400 f for 45 minutes to an
hour.  cool.  remove skin and all bones.  cube chicken.  keep giblets,
except for the neck, with all the spicy, herbed juice.  set aside.

in a skillet, saute minced onions in oil.  place in a bowl.

in the same skillet, with a little oil, fry the beaten eggs mixed with salt
and chopped cilantro.  place in another small bowl.  still in the same oiled
skillet, toast almonds until slightly brown and grind them in a food
processor.  set aside.

clarify the shortening, and everything is ready to be put together now.

on the bottom of the pan used to roast the chicken, after washing and
greasing it, stack 2 sheets of filo dough, letting edges overhang.  brush on
top some of the clarified shortening.  at broil, rapidly brown these 2
sheets.  then add cubed chicken, with all spices and juice.  spread again 2
more dough sheets with some shortening brushed on.

broil rapidly.  add soft mixture of eggs with cilantro.  cover with 2 more
greased sheets.  broil rapidly.  add almonds mixed with cinnamon and sugar.
finish with your best-looking greased sheets.  tuck in all dough and bake 25
to 30 minutes at 400 f until golden grown.  cool slightly.  sprinkle with
remaining powdered sugar, making a decorative crisscross with cinnamon on
top.  serve hot.  it can be reheated several times.  it can also be frozen.



                          artichoke heart dip

                             1 cup  mayonnaise or sour cream
                             1 cup  parmesan cheese grated
                            2 cans  water packed artichoke hearts
                          sprinkle  garlic powder
                          sprinkle  paprika

cut artichoke hearts into small pieces.  mix all ingredients together
except paprika.  put into baking dish and sprinkle paprika on top for
color.  bake at 350 degrees f for 20 minutes or until bubbly.  serve
with crackers or baguette thins.  people usually rave about this one!


a whole brie wrapped in phyllo and baked, served with apricot jam and
     french bread.
teriyaki chicken drummettes dusted with sesame seeds.
tiny meatballs in a sauce made from red current jelly and bbq
     sauce.
a finger-food salad of raw broccoli and cauliflower flowerettes
     marinated overnight with italian dressing, black olives,
     and cherry tomatoes.
a tray of whole strawberries with a dipping sauce made of sour cream
     and grand marnier.
a huge wedge of sharp natural cheddar cheese with some crackers and
     pears for slicing.
a wonderful hot dip (i have three favorites: one of dried beef and
     cream cheese, one of crab and cream cheese, and one of artichoke
     hearts and parmesan.)
inari sushi (fried tofu skins stuffed with seasoned sticky rice)
a tray of assorted italian cookies, some wickedly rich and sweet
     and others crisp and light.
phyllo triangles stuffed with spinach and feta.
endive leaves stuffed with dilled shrimp salad.
stuffed grape leaves drizzled with lemon juice.

i like to set up an hors d'oeuvre party in three four stations:
one for hot and cold meat or fish nibbles, one for bread and cheese,
one for vegetable, and one fruit and desert.  then i may set out seasoned
popcorn, nuts, or wine crackers in small bowls around the room for
"instant gratification." i also have a "serve yourself" bar for
drinks of whatever kind i'm serving, usually a not-too-sweet punch
and soda, with wine or beer. (an excellent and pretty nonalcoholic punch
can be made with white grape juice, a good gingerale like canada dry or
schweppes, and a little pomegranate juice. to spike it, add brandy
to taste. if you like it sweeter, use framboise instead of the
pomegranate juice. or try creme de cassis.) in the winter, i may
make some mulled wine or cider.



Title: Bacon-Wrapped Shrimp
 
 
8    oz. Canadian-style bacon, cut in 12 slices
12  med. shrimp, shelled and deveined
1   med. red bell pepper, seeded and cut into 12 strips
1 1/2 T. low-sodium teriyaki sauce (I'd use regular)
1 1/2 T. low-sodium chili sauce (" " ")
1     T. hoisin sauce
 
1. Place bacon on rack; cover with paper towel.  Microwave on High 1
minutes; pat dry on paper towel.  Let cool slightly.
 
2. Wrap one shrimp and one pepper strip in each piece of bacon; secure
with wooden pick.  Place in 11x7" baking dish.
 
3. In small bowl, combine the teriyaki, chili and hoisin sauces with 2
T. water; pour over shrimp.  Cover and refrigerate 2 hours, turning
once.
 
4. Uncover and microwave on High 3-4 minutes, until shrimp is cooked
through.  Let stand 5 minutes before serving.
 

Chevre, Pear, Prosciutto, and Walnuts in Filo Bundles

3 pears, peeled, cored, and diced
12 oz. chevre
2 oz. prosciutto, sliced very thinly and julienned
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 tbl sage or pineapple sage, minced
1 pkg filo dough
1 cup butter, liquid
1 cup cream
garnish: chopped chives, 1 star fruit, 1 cucumber

Combine diced pears, 8 oz. chevre, julienned prosciutto, chopped walnuts,
and minced sage in a bowl. This is the filling.

Cut filo sheets in half so they are roughly square. You will use three
sheets, or six half sheets per serving, but you'd better count to be
sure you have enough. Lightly butter the bottoms of eight custard cups
or ramekins and place on a sheet pan. Lay six half-sheets, buttered with
a brush, over each other in a messy, offset pattern. Ease into a custard
cup. Repeat for all eight custard cups. Divide the filling among the
cups, placing it in the filo dough, and then twisting the tops into a
bundle over the filling. Brush the top lightly with butter. Bake the
bundles in a 350'F oven until nicely browned and the inside is hot,
about 20 minutes.

Combine 4 oz. chevre with 1 cup cream over moderate heat. Stir
vigorously to make the mixture smooth and reduce until the sauce coats a
spoon.

To serve, divide the sauce among eight salad-sized plates. Tilt the
plates to make the sauce evenly coat the inner area of the plate. Ease
the filo bundles out of the custard cups by loosening the edges with a
knife and then lifting it out with a spoon. Place a filo bundle in the
center of each plate.

Optional garnish: Sprinkle snipped chives on the sauce on the bottom half of
the plate. On the top half of the plate, place a thin slice of star fruit
on the right and a cucumber fan on the left.

See any book on garnishing for cucmber fan instructions. A cucumber fan is
made by slicing a cucumber in half lengthwise, cutting grooves in the skin
with a citrus zester/groove tool, and then making four thin slices cut at
a 45' angle, but held together in one corner. The fan is mooshed on to
the plate to make an ornamental fan. If you have a very sharp knife and a
steady hand, it's really quite easy.


Stir fried Lamb with Lemon-Soy Vinaigrette

4 shallots minced
1 red jalapeno pepper with seeds, minced
2 green jalapeno peppers with seeds, minced
5 garlic cloves, minced
1 tbsp plus 1 tsp peanut oil
1.5 pounds lean ground lamb
1/5 cup chopped fresh coriander (cilantro) plus 1/4 cup whole
           leaves for garnish
1/4 cup chinese preserved or pickled cabbage
1/2 tsp soy sauce
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
18 radicchio leaves
1/4 small red onion, sliced crosswise 1/8 inch thick
1/4 small white onion, sliced crosswise 1/8 inch thick
lemon-soy vinaigrette (recipe follows)

In medium skillet, cook shallots, red jalapeno, half of the green
jalapeno, and the garlic in 2 tsp of peanut oil, stirring over low heat
until softened, about 5 minutes.  Set aside to cool.

In a bowl, combine the cooled vegetable mixture with the ground lamb
and mix thoroughly.  Add chopped fresh coriander, pickled cabbage, soy
sauce, salt and pepper.

In a large skillet, cook the lamb mixture in the remaining 2 tsp of
peanut oil over high heat, stirring well to break up clumps, until
browned, about 4 minutes.  Drain and set aside.

Place 3 radicchio leaves on each plate and fill with the lamb mixture
(i.e., serves six) and fill with the lamb mixture.  Combine the red
onion, white onion, fresh coriander leaves and remaining green
jalapenos; sprinkle on top of the lamb.  Serve drizzled with a few tbsp
of lemon-soy vinaigrette; serve remaining vinaigrette on the side.


Lemon-Soy Vinaigrette

3 tbsp rice wine vinegar
2 tbsp peanut oil
2 tbsp soy sauce
1 tbsp sesame oil
1.5 tbsp fresh lemon juice
salt & freshly ground pepper

In small bowl, whisk all ingredients together until combined.
Cover and refrigerate up to 1 day.


                                artichoke dip

8oz cream cheese
12oz shredded mozzarella
1 cup mayonaise
1 cup grated parmasean
1 onion (finely chopped)
2 cloves of garlic (finely chopped)
2 small jars (approx 13oz) marinated artichoke hearts (drain well)
- tear artichokes apart with your fingers
2 bags of pita bread

cut up pita bread into chip size triangles, seperate and bake on a cookie sheet
until crispy (approx 5 minutes).

combine all other ingredients and mash (a kitchenaid mixer works great).

bake in a uncovered casserole dish for approx 30 minutes @ 350 or until bubbly.

serve hot out of the oven and scoop up dip with pita bread. if  you  intend  to
take  this  to  a  party  or are having friends over be prepared to recite this
recipe a number of times.  my wife and i bring xerox copies with us!


                CRISP SAUTEED MUSHROOMS 


1 # large whole fresh mushrooms
these mushrooms must be absolutely fresh and the caps should
not be separating from the stems.

brush off mushrooms and slice into 1/4" slices from the
top down, including the stems.

with a fine mist spray bottle, mist the mushrooms to just barely
dampen.

drop into a paper bag or large ziplock bag that contains 1 or 2 cups
of a/p flour.  stir well or shake very gently.  then, let the mushrooms
"marinate" for a while in the flour while you prepare to cook them.

in a large, well seasoned cast-iron skillet or a commercial quality non-
stick skillet melt 1/2 stick of fresh unsalted butter and ~1/4 cup of
olive oil.  mix the oils well and heat to ~300-325 degrees.

drop the mushrooms into a colander to remove excess flour.  drop a few
at a time into the butter/oil and coat each well.  continue 'til all the
mushrooms are in the skillet.  turn down the heat to the saute level
and continue to cook, turning frequently.  after a few minutes add salt
and pepper to taste.

continue to cook until the degree of crispness is achieved.

my neighbor used to cook these for a long time, rendering nearly all the
moisture out of the mushrooms.  the finished product would be the most
delicate, and crisp mushrooms used as a side vegetable.



                   pate a chou (profiteroles)
 
1/2 c. water                       1/2 c flour
1/4 c. butter                      3 eggs
 
     place water and butter in a medium saucepan, heat until
water boils and the butter is melted. remove from the heat and
dump in the flour all at once.  stir vigorously until the flour
mixture forms an elastic ball in the saucepan. let the dough
mixture cool, and then beat in an egg until it is fully
incorporated into the dough mixture.  repeat the process with
each of the remaining eggs, beating them into the dough, one at a
time. 
     place the dough in the refrigerator to cool, for at least 45
minutes to 1 hour.  this will stiffen the dough, so it will not
flatten when baked into puffs or profiteroles.  
     when ready to bake, preheat oven to a hot 475 degrees f. 
using a couple of teaspoons, scoop small (large walnut sized)
mounds of dough on a greased cookie sheet.  place cookie sheet in
the hot oven for 10 minutes.  then reduce the heat to 325 degrees
f. and continue baking for an additional 25 - 30 minutes, or till
puffs are a medium brown color.  the puffs must remain in the
oven for the full baking time, or they will collapse soon after
being taken from the oven.  
     after cooling, the tops may be removed with a sharp knife,
any remaining uncooked dough may be removed from the inside, and
the puffs may be filled with any appetizer filling or desert
filling desired.
     this recipe makes approximately 18 puffs.

     

                profiteroles a la reine
          puffs with tarragon-flavored chicken

2 tbs. butter                  1/4 tsp. grated nutmeg
2 tbs. flour                   cayenne pepper, pinch
1/2 c. chicken broth           2 tsp. chopped fresh tarragon, or 
1/2 c. heavy cream                    1 tsp. dried.
salt, if desired               1 1/2 c. leftover chicken, cut into cubes
black pepper, to taste         24 cream puffs
 
     melt the butter in a medium saucepan, add the flour, stirring with a 
wire whisk.  when blended, add the broth, stirring rapidly with the whisk.
when it is thickened, stir in the cream, and stir til blended.  add the
salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne and tarragon.  let simmer, stirring, for
about 2 minutes.  stir in the chicken and bring to a boil. remove from
the stove. this should have a very thick consistency.  if it is not thick
enough, it may be further thickened by the addition of a small amount of flour
dissolved in water or broth, and stirred into the mixture while being heated, 
until it thickens.
    slice off the tops of the cream puffs.  spoon an equal amount of the 
chicken mixture into each puff.  replace the tops and serve.  these may be 
made up an hour or two in advance, and reheated before serving in a 
slow (325 degree) oven, or for a few seconds in a microwave.  do not
make them up too far in advance, since the puff casings will tend to
get soggy.



             profiteroles aux crevettes a l'indienne
                puffs with curried shrimp filling

3/4 lb.  fresh shrimp,           3 tbs. finely chopped chutney
         shelled and deveined           salt, if desired
1 tbs. butter                           freshly ground black pepper,
3 tbs. finely chopped onion                to taste
1 tbs. curry powder, or less,    24 cream puffs
       to taste. 

     chop the shrimp into 1/2 in. or smaller pieces.  there should be about 
1 1/4 cups.  set aside.  melt the butter in a medium saucepan and add the 
onion. cook, stirring until the onion is golden.  add the curry powder and 
stir to blend.  add the cream and chutney and cook down until there is
only about 1/2 cup left.  add the salt, pepper and shrimp, and cook, stirring,
for 1 or 2 minutes, or until the shrimp loses its raw look.
     slice off the tops from all the cream puffs.  spoon an equal portion
of the shrimp mixture into each cream puff.  replace the tops and serve.



Chicken Ravioli in Port Mustard Creme Sauce with Mango Ginger Chutney

serves 4 as a pasta dish before the main meal.

Pasta

	1 cup flour
	1 egg
	1 tbl water
	1 tbl olive oil (gives gummy texture)

	prepare two sheets of pasta rolled out to "6" on the Atlas machine.
	You can knead by hand forever or use a food processor on the dough.

Egg wash

	1 egg
	2 tbl water

	whisk together and brush on one side of each piece of pasta. The
	egg wash acts as a glue to hold the ravioli together during
	cooking.

Filling

	6 oz. cooked chicken (Chef Johnson called for smoked)
	1/6 cup cream
	1/4 cup mango ginger chutney (buy from your grocery store!)

	Combine in food processor, or chop chicken finely with knife and
	mix together. (Chef Johnson called for some cayenne and more
	chutney, but I cut it down to my taste because I thought it was
	too spicy.)

Prepare ravioli by putting 1-1 1/2 tsp lumps of chicken filling on
one piece of pasta in a 2xN matrix where N is ~10-12. Place other piece of
pasta over this. Egg side of both sheets should be toward the inside. Cut
ravioli with a knife or a ravioli wheel. Seal ravioli with fingers or
by pressing with a fork. Flour well and set aside.

You should make 20-24 ravioli. You will need 16 to serve. Expect a few
to fall apart while cooking.

When sauce is ready, cook ravioli until they rise.

Sauce

	1 cup port wine
	8 peppercorns, bruised or cracked
	1 bay leaf
	2 shallots, diced

	Reduce over high heat until nearly dry.

	1 cup chicken stock

	Add and reduce until total volume is about 1/4 cup.

	1 cup cream
	1 tbl mustard

	Add, whisk, and reduce until sauce naps. (Napping means: dip a
	spoon in the sauce, wipe the back horizontally with your finger.
	If the sauce does not run it is thick enough.)

	Strain the sauce and keep warm. (Strained sauces come from
	French tradition. You want a smooth pretty sauce with no chunks
	of pepper and lumps of shallots.)

	I adjusted the proportions in this recipe from Chef Johnson's
	original. I used less cream and more port because I like the
	greater flavor and color from the port.

Prepare four individual plates. On each plate, pour an equal portion of
the sauce. Makes sure the sauce coats the entire center of the plate but
none of the side. Place four cooked ravioli on the place, and scoop
about 2 tbl of the chutney on the middle of the plate. It should look very
pretty.

What sort of wine would go with this course? I've had it with a
Chardonnay and with a German Riesling. In both cases, the ginger, etc.,
overpowered the wine. Perhaps an Alsatian Gewurztraminer would do
better, or perhaps this course just isn't suited to wine. :-(


Baba Ghanoush / Eggplant with Tahini


3 large eggplants
2-4 cloves garlic, or to taste
Salt
1/2 c tahini or less, depending on size of eggplants
juice of 3 lemons, or more to taste
1/2 t ground cumin (optional)
2 T finely chopped parsley
A few black olives or 1 tomato, thinly sliced, to garnish

Cook the eggplants over charcoal or under a gas or electric 
broiler (sear until skins are black and start to blister with
the flesh soft and juicy, rub skins off under cold water taking
care to remove any charred particles, then gently squeeze out as
much of the bitter juice as possible).  

Crush the garlic cloves with salt.  Mash the eggplants with a
potato masher or fork, then add the crushed garlic and a little
more salt, and pound to a smooth, creamy puree.  Alternatively,
use an electric blender to make the puree.

Add the tahini and lemon juice alternatively, beating well or
blending for a few seconds between each addition.  Taste and add
more salt, lemon juice, garlic, or tahini if you think it is
necessary, and if you like, a little cumin.

Pour the cream into a bowl or a few smaller serving dishes.
Garnish with finely chopped parsley and black olives, or with
a few tomato slices.  Serve as an appetizer with Arab or other
bread, as a salad, or as a party dip.



Turkish Leeks

2 lbs leeks
1/3 cup finest virgin olive oil
2 small carrots, peeled, halved lengthwise, then sliced 1/2" thick
2 tablespoons uncooked rice
1 1/2 teaspoons sugar
salt to taste
lemon juice (1/2 lemon)
1 1/2 cups water

Trim the leeks.  Remove a few of the outer layers.  Slice 3/4 inch 
thich; discard the tough green leaves.  Wash several times in plenty
of water and drain.

In a heavy pan heat the olive oil.  Stir in the leeks and carrots.
Cover and cook 30 minutes over low heat, shaking the pan occasionally.
Stir in the rice, sugar, salt, juice of 1/2 lemon and water.  Cover
and simmer 30 minutes or until leeks are tender.  Check the liquid
level and add hot water in very small quantities if necessary.  When
cooked it should be very moist but not watery.  Serve cold sprinkled
with lemon juice to taste.  Like all cold olive oil dishes it is
very good with crusty bread.



Scallops with Leeks

1/4 cup dry vermouth
1/8 teaspoon powdered saffron
5 tablespoons butter
1 pound leeks cut into 1.5 inch julienne
3 tablespoons finely minced shallots
2 large garlic cloves, minced
1/2 pound sea scallops, halved
1/2 pound shelled shrimp
1/4 cup dry white wine
1 tablespoon fresh tyme, minced
Pinch of cayenne pepper
Pinch of freshly ground white pepper
1 cup whipping cream
Salt
2 cups rice, freshly cooked

       Bring vermouth to simmer in heavy small saucepan.  Stir in
       saffron.  Remove from heat and let steep until ready to use.

       Melt 2 tablespoons butter in heavy large skillet over
       medium-low heat.  Add leeks and cook until slightly brown,
       stirring occasionally (about 20 minutes).  Transfer to bowl.

       Melt remaining 3 tablespoons butter in same skillet over
       medium heat.  Add shallots and cook until translucent,
       stirring frequently (about 3 minutes).  Add garlic and saute
       until just golden (about 3 minutes).  Stir in scallops,
       shrimp and wine.  Simmer until scallops and shrimp are
       cooked (2-3 minutes).  Add seafood mixture to the leeks,
       using a slotted spoon.

       Add vermouth to skillet and bring to simmer.  Mix in thyme,
       cayene and pepper.  Strain in any liquid from seafood-leek
       mixture. and simmer until all liquid is reduced by half.
       Add cream and simmer until slightly thickened (about 3
       minutes).  Stir in seafood-leek mixture and heat through.
       Season, with salt, to taste.



PHYLLO CHEESE PASTRIES

1 lb muenster cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 TB chopped parsley
1 lb frozen phyllo dough
2 sticks melted butter

Grate the muenster cheese finely in a food processor or with a hand grater.
Add eggs and parsley and blend well.

Remove the phyllo dough from the freezer
and gently unroll.  With a sharp knife, slice dough into thirds,
lengthwise, so that each is approximately 4" x 12".  Re-wrap two thirds of
the dough in plastic and return to the freezer.

Tear a large piece of wax paper and place on counter.  Working quickly,
take one sheet of phyllo dough and brush liberally with butter.  Top with
two more sheets of phyllo, brushing each with butter.  Place approximately
1 TB of cheese mixture at one end of the buttered sheets, 1 inch from the
edge.  With your fingers, roll the dough over the cheese mixture twice.
Fold in the edges of the dough and continue rolling tightly until the end.
(Be careful not to tear the dough or roll too loosely, otherwise the cheese
will spill out when baking).
Place
seam side down on a cookie sheet and brush tops with butter.  Repeat with
remaining phyllo sheets.  Bake at 400 degrees for approximately 15 minutes
or until golden and crispy.


BRANDY BAKED BRIE

1 1/2 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup brandy
2 cups chopped walnuts
2 pound wheel of brie or camenbert

In a small mixing bowl, combine brown sugar and brandy.  Stir in
walnuts.  Place brie on top of oven proof serving platter and
spoon walnut mixture over top, covering completely.  Wrap platter
in plastic and refrigerate for at least two hours.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Remove brie from refrigerator, unwrap and bake for 10 to
15 minutes or until cheese begins to melt.
Cool slightly and serve with graham crackers or alone.


MUSHROOM PATE

ingredients (all approximate):
             3/4 pound chopped mushrooms
             2 tbsp butter
             8 oz cream cheese
             1/2 tsp curry powder
             1 tsp worcestershire sauce
             1 tbsp dry sherry (or dry white wine)
             1/2 Cup pecans, chopped

  saute the mushrooms in butter until dark (about 5min or so) and drain.
process or puree with the cream cheese, curry, worcestershire sauce, and
sherry. Fold in the pecans and refrigerate. Garnish with parsley or
watercress.



   Hot Mushroom Turnovers  
     (from Good Housekeeping "All-Time Favorite Recipes")

   3 3oz pkg cream cheese, softened
   butter or margarine, softened
   all-purpose flour
   1/2 lb. mushrooms, minced
   1 large onion, minced
   1 t salt
   1/4 t thyme leaves
   1/4 C sour cream
   1 egg, beaten

   Early in day:  In large bowl, with elec. mixer at med speed, 
   beat cream cheese, 1/2C butter and 1 1/2 C flour until soft
   dough forms; wrap dough in waxed paper; chill at least 1 hr.

   In med skillet, in 3 T butter, saute mushrooms and onion until
   tender; blend in salt, thyme, and 2 T flour; stir in sour cream;
   chill.

   On floured surface, roll half of dough in 15 inch circle (about
   1/16" thick); cut into twenty 2 3/4" circles.  Roll scraps into
   ball; chill.
   
   On one half of each circle, place teaspoonful of mushroom mixture.
   Brush edges with egg; fold other half over filling; with fork, press 
   edges together; prick tops to let out steam; place on ungreased
   cookie sheet.  Repeat with rest of dough, scraps, filling.  Brush with
   egg; cover; chill.

   About 20 min before serving:  Preheat oven to 450 deg F.  Uncover
   turnovers; bake 12 min or until golden.  Makes about 50.



MUSHROOM-BACON PATE - PARTY PATE WITHOUT LIVER


     2 lbs     fresh mushrooms, chopped very fine
     1/2 lb    bacon (or more, to taste)
     2/3 cup   onion, chopped very fine
     2/3 cup   celery, chopped very fine
     8 oz      cream cheese, at room temperature
     4         eggs
     1/2 cup   parsley, chopped very fine
     2 cups    dry bread crumbs
     1 tsp     salt
     1 tsp     dried rosemary
     1 tsp     dried oregano
     1/4 tsp   ground black pepper

          (1)  Fry the bacon and crumble it as fine as possible.
               Reserve some of the grease.

          (2)  Chop the mushrooms, onion, celery, and parsley as
               fine as possible.  A food processor works best,
               but you can do it by hand if need be.

          (3)  Saute the onion and celery in the bacon grease
               until soft, then remove from the grease, and
               drain.

          (4)  Meanwhile, beat the cream cheese slightly, and
               then beat in the eggs.  Add all other ingredients
               to the eggs/cheese mixture. Mix thoroughly.

          (5)  Grease a large loaf pan or two small, line with
               foil, and then grease the foil.  Pat the mixture
               into the loaf pan and cover loosely with foil.
               Bake for 1 1/2 hours at 400 deg. F.

          (6)  Let cool completely before serving.

NOTES
     This pate is actually best when refrigerated before serving.
     Serve with crackers, or with bread cut into shapes with
     cookie cutters.

     To make this a more elegant buffet dish, garnish the top
     with a thin layer of aspic.

     

Lumpias 

1 10 Oz Can Water Chestnuts Drained and Minced
2 Eggs
1 Tsp Black Pepper
1 Bunch Green Onions, Minced
2 Yellow Chili Peppers, Minced
1/2 Tsp Salt
1 Tsp Minced Garlic
1Lb Ground Pork
1 Package Mu Shu Pork Wrappers
An egg and 1 Tbl Flour Mixed together in a small bowl
Chili Sauce

Combine the first eight ingredients and mix thoroughly. With a wrapper
on a plate in front of you, put about 1 tbl meat on a corner as though
you were going to wrap the meat up in a piece of butcher paper. Using
your fingers, pinch the meat into a cylinder. Bring the lower corner up
over the meat, wrap the sides in, and roll the meat up around the rest
of the wrapper. Secure the edge of the wrapper by using the egg mixture
as glue. Deep fry the lumpias until crispy and golden brown. Serve at
once with chili sauce.


Roasted Garlic

1 head of garlic
Butter and fresh thyme (optional)

Using a sharp knife, cut the pointed top off the garlic
head so that the cloves are just visible through the
cuts in the top of the garlic.  Several hours before serving,
put the garlic in the oven at 250 degrees for 20-25 minutes.
Remove and let cool.

Just before serving, put the garlic on a heatproof serving
dish; garnish with butter and crossed sprigs of fresh thyme,
if desired.  Heat oven to 450 degrees and roast garlic for
5-10 minutes, or until brown all across the top.  Serve while
still warm.

To serve: We use cocktail forks (gotta have some use for the
silly things) to scoop out the cloves of garlic from the head.
Then you mash them on warm French bread.  The appetizer last
night included a wedge of herb Brie next to the head of garlic,
and the combination was very nice.



Stuffed Mushrooms

Select large, firm mushrooms w/underside still tightly closed.
Wash in cold water and dry.  Carefully remove stems and reserve.

Fillings:

Bacon-Cheese

7 slices bacon, cooked, drained, crumbled
8 oz. cream cheese, softened
1 bunch green onions, finely chopped
dash garlic salt
1/3 c. mushroom stems, minced
3 T. butter, melted

Mix cream cheese, onion, garlic salt, mushroom stems, and bacon.
Brush prepared caps with melted butter, fill, place in shallow
baking dish with 2-4 T. water.  Bake 20-25 min. at 350 deg.

Bleu Cheese
 
1/2 c. fine minced mushroom stems
1/4 c. fine chopped green onion
2 T. margarine
8 oz. cream cheese
1/2 pkg. bleu cheese salad dressing mix
2 T. milk

Saute mushroom stems and onions in margarine 5 min.  Mix cream cheese,
dressing mix and milk.  Mix in onion mixture.  Fill prepared caps.
Bake 20-25 min. at 350 deg.

Crab-Cheese

1 pkg. (6 oz) frozen crab, thawed and drained
3 T. mayonnaise
2 T. chopped green onion
2 T. gold raisins
1/4 c. shredded sharp cheddar
1 tsp. curry
fresh grated parmesan

Mix all but parmesan.  Fill prepared caps.  Sprinkle w/parmesan and
broil 6-8 in. from heat.


Pork

1/2 lb. lean pork, minced
1 small green onion, minced
1 slice ginger
1 T. sherry
1 T. soy
1 tsp. sugar
1 tsp. cornstarch
1 tsp. peanut oil

Grind together pork, onion and ginger.  Blend in remaining ingred.
Fill prepared caps and steam 30 min.
-- 
Stephanie da Silva                                    arielle@taronga.com

   WHITE BREAD RECIPE
   
   A white bread recipe that's worth a blue ribbon!
   6 1/2 to 7 cups all-purpose flour
   2 packages "Instant Dry Yeast"
   3 tablespoons sugar
   1 tablespoon salt
   1 1/4 cups water
   1 cup milk
   2 tablespoons shortening
   Oven 400                           2 Loaves
        In large mixer bowl, combine 3 cups flour, yeast, sugar and salt; 
     mix well. In saucepan, heat water, milk and shortening until warm
     (120-130 degrees); shortening does not need to melt. Add to flour
     mixture. Blend at low speed until moistened; beat 3 minutes at 
     medium speed. By hand, gradually stir in enough ramaining flour
     to make a firm dough. Knead on floured surface until smooth and 
     elastic, 5 to 8 minutes. Place in greased bowl, turning to 
     grease top. Cover; allow to rise in warm place until light and 
     doubled, about 1 hour. 
        Punch down dough. Divide into 12 parts. On lightly floured surface
     roll or pat each half to a 14 x 7 inch rectangle.  Starting with
     shorter side, roll up tightly, pressing dough into roll with each
     turn. Pinch edges and ends to seal. Place in greased 9 x 5 or
     8 x 4 inch bread pans. Cover; allow to rise in warm place until 
     double, about 30 minutes. Bake at 400 degrees for 35 to 40 minutes 
     until golden brown. Remove from pans and You know the rest!           
--------------------------------------------------------------------------     
   Rich Bread Recipe
   
   8 to 8 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
   2 packages "Instant Dry Yeast"
   3/4 cup sugar
   1 Tbls salt
   1 1/2 cups milk
   1/2 cup water 
   3/4 cup butter 
   4 eggs
   Oven 375 degrees      makes 3 loaves
   
   In large mixer bowl, combine 3 cups flour, yeast, supar, and salt;
   mix well. In pan, heat milk, water and butter until warm.
   butter doesn't need to melt. Add to flour mixture. Add eggs. Blend at 
   low speed til moistened; beat 3 mins. at med speed. By hand gradually
   stir in enough remining flour to make a firm dough. Knead on  floured
   surface til smooth and elastic, 5 to 8 mins.
   Place in greased bowl, turning to grease top. Cover and allow to rise
   in warm place til fight and doubled, abour 1 1/2 hrs.
   Punch down dough.  Divide into 3 parts. On lightly floured surface,
   roll or pat each third to a 14 x7 inch rectangle. Starting with the
   shorter side, roll up tightly, pressing dough into roll with each 
   turn. Pinch edges and ends to seal. Place in greased 8 x 4 inch bread
   pans. Cover and allow to rise in warm place til doubled. Bake at 375
   for 25-30 mins. Remove from pans....You know the rest! Try toast!          
------------------------------------------------------------------------   
   EGG BRAID BREAD
   (Excellent for the Holidays)
   
   4 to 4 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
   2 pkgs. "Instant Dry Yeast"
   2 Tbls sugar
   2 tsps salt
   1/2 c water
   1/2 c milk
   2 Tbls shortening
   3 beatened eggs *reserve 1 Tbls. of this

   In large mixer bowl, combine 2 cups flour, yeast, sugar and salt.
   Mix well. In saucepan, heat water, milk and shortening until
   warm...shortening doesn't have to melt. Add to flour mixture. 
   Add eggs. Blend at low speed until moistened: beat 3 mins.at
   med. speed. By hand, gradually stir in enough remaining flour
   to make a firm dough. Knead on floured surface til smooth and
   elastic, 5 to 8 mins.
   Place in greased bowl, turning to grase top. Cover and allow to
   rise in a warm place til doubled, about 1 hr.
   Punch down dough. Divide into 3 parts. On lightly floured surface, 
   roll each part into a 14-16 inch rope. On greased cookie sheet 
   loosely braid from the center to the ends. Pinch ends and tuck
   under to seal. Cover and allow to rise til doubled. 30 mins.
   Brush with reserved Tbl. of egg and bake at 400 for 25 mins. 
   or golden brown. Remove from cookie sheet......ENJOY !            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------   
   ENGLISH MUFFINS
   2 3/4 to 3 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
   1 pkg "Instant Dry Yeast"
   1 Tbls sugar
   1 tsp salt
   1 1/4 c warm water
   2 tbls shortening
   Cornmeal
   Oven NOT needed   Use Pan or Electric Griddle at 325 degrees.
   Makes about a dozen muffins

   In large mixer bowl, combine 1 1/4 cups flour, yeast, sugar and salt
   and mix well. Add warm water (125 degrees or so) and oil to flour
   mixture. Blend at low speed until moistened. Beat 3 minutes at med.
   speed. By hand, gradually stir in enough remaining flour to make
   a firm dough. Knead on floured surface until smooth and elastic,
   about 5 min.  Place in grased bowl, turning to grease top. Cover
   and allow to rise in a warm place til double....about 45 min.
   Punch down dough. ON surface sprinkled w/ cornmeal, roll dough
   into 1/4 in. thickness. With biscuit or cookie cutter, cut into
   3 to 4 inch circles. Place muffins on  ungreased cookie sheets.
   Cover and allow to rise at room temperature til double, or about
   30 mins.
   Bake on lightly oiled electric  griddle or fry pan at 325 degrees
   for about 8 mins. on each side until deep golden brown. Then EAT!
---------------------------------------------------------------------
   BATTER WHITE BREAD
   NO kneading needed on this one folks.
   
   6 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 
   2 pkgs. "Instant Dry Yeast"
   3 Tbls sugar
   1 Tbls salt
   3 cups warm water
   2 Tbls shortening
     Butter
   Oven 375 degrees           Makes 2 loaves
   
   In large mixer bowl, combine 3 1/2 cups flour, yeast, sugar and salt
   Mix well. Add warm water (125 degrees or so) and shortening to flour
   mixture. Blend at low speed until moistened, beat 3 minutes at med.
   speed. By hand, gradually stir in remaining flour to make
   a stiff batter. Cover and allow to rise in warm place until double.
   About 30 mins.
   Stir down batter. Spread in greased 9x5 or 8x4 bread pans. Cover and
   allow to rise until batter reaches tops of pans, (about 20-30 mins)
   Bake at 375 degrees for about 35-40 mins til golden brown. Remove
   from the pans and brush with butter. Allow to cool. 

Basic Sourdough Starter (from Sourdough Cookery)

First: see if you can get some from your friend instead!  If not:
2 c. flour
1 tsp salt
3 tbl sugar
1 tbl yeast (1/2 pkg)
2 c. lukewarm water

Never let sourdough starter touch metal.  Use a wooden spoon and plastic,
ceramic or wooden bowl.

With a wooden spoon stir dry ingredients together and gradually add warm
water.  Stir until mixture resembles a smooth paste.  Cover with towel and set
in a warm place to sour.  Stir mixture several times a day.  In 2-3 days the
sourdough will be ready.

Store in a plastic container, with holes punched in the lid to allow gases to
escape.  I use a yogurt or margarine container with holes in the lid.

To make batter for a recipe, take out 1 cup stater and add 1 cup flour and 1
cup lukewarm water.  (I usually just use all of the starter and add 1 cup or
more of flour and water).  Stir with a wooden spoon.  Don't worry about the
lumps.  Cover and set in a warm location overnight (or at least for a few
hours).  Before you use the starter be sure to save at least 1/2 cup (add it
to any saved starter).  As soon as the lumps are gone it's ok to use the
batter.  If you leave it overnight it may seperate before morning, just stir
it back together.

Once a week replenish the starter this way.  I typically just put all of the
starter into a bowl and add 1/2 - 1 1/2 cup of flour and water. If I don't
intend to make bread I use just 1/2 cup, if I need alot of starter I use up to
1 1/2 cups.  The starter stays more "sour" if you leave it on the counter for
several days at a time and if you try not to add too much flour at any one
time.  However I have never gotten a truely sour sourdough out of this
starter (well, see additional notes below).

If the starter starts acting somewhat whimpy, add 1 tbl of yeast when you
replenish it.  Be sure to occassionally completely clean the container that
you use for storing the starter!

I find that the starter occassionally puts off a bit of grey liquid on the top
of the container.  I usually pour this off.  As the starter matures the amount
of grey liquid decreases.

There are other starters in this book, including one made from yogurt.  I'm
slightly reluctant to keep a yogurt starter going forever, but a friend claims
he had one he really liked.  I may try that as I prefer a good sour bread.

.
Sourdough Bread, regular: (Based on recipe in _Sourdough Cookery_ pg 35)

2 - 2 1/2 c refreshed starter
.(refresh the starter using about 2 cups flour and 2 cups water, 
.use 2 cups for this recipe and put the rest back in the refrigerator)
1 cup milk (if you want sour bread, use yogurt; but that still doesn't make it
.*real* sour)
3 tbl butter or margarine
2 tsp salt
1 pkg (2 3/4 tsp, 1 scant tbl) yeast
.proofed in 1/4 cup warm water and 2 tbl sugar
6 1/2 cup flour (approx)
1 tsp baking soda

Remember: Never let sourdough starter touch metal.  Use a wooden spoon and
plastic, ceramic or wooden bowl. I use a plastic bowl and wooden spoon for the
entire process.

Heat milk or yogurt until scalded.  Remove from heat.  Add butter or margarine
(so it melts).  Let cool.

When cooled to lukewarm, combine milk/yogurt with the starter and the yeast.
Put 2 cups of flour and the baking soda and salt in a sifter (which mixes it
together nicely) and sift into starter.  Mix until fairly smooth.  The mixture
should be about as thick as a brownie batter.  If it's too thin add a bit more
flour.

Cover and let rise for 30-40 minutes until doubled.  

Using a heavy wooden spoon (get a real strong one from JPMeads! for <$3!) mix
in the remaining flour about 1 cup at a time.  When it's too hard to mix,
knead it with your hands in the bowl until it stops being very sticky.

Turn the dough onto a floured board and knead it, continueing to incorporate
flour as needed.  Knead 5 minutes or more until smooth and elastic.  The dough
will be extremely smooth and silky.

Let dough rise for 1-2 hours until doubled.  Punch down.  Seperate into 2
loaves (or 2 1/2 loaves).  Shape into loaves or shape into round loaves and
place in greased 8-9" pie pans.

Let rise until about 1 1/2 times original size.  Bake at 375 degrees for 50
minutes or until done.  Yum.

Variation: Add 1 1/2 cup shredded cheddar cheese and 1 cup diced pepperoni or
ham to the first slurry mixture.  A real favorite!

Variation: 7/6/92: I accidentally learned how to make sourdough bread that's
very sour.  I mixed up some bread adding flour until it was the consistency of
brownie dough.  As always, I left the bread to rise.  Well, things got hectic
and I left the bread at this stage for about 12 hours.  Then I put it in the
fridge overnight.  The next morning I let it warm up, finished making and
kneading the dough and baked it as usual.  Basically the dough sat for at
least 24 hours and the sourdough starter dispersed throughout the batter!

The result was a loaf of sourdough bread that is very *sour*!  Like the "San
Fransisco sourdough" we used to find in Seattle.  Love it!!!


.
Sourdough Oatmeal Bread (Based on recipe in _Sourdough Cookery_ page 44)

1 1/2 cups refreshed starter
2 cup oatmeal 
1 1/2 cup yogurt (or milk)
1/2 cup molasses 
1/4 cup brown sugar
.(I substitute 1/2 cup honey for both molasses and brown sugar)
3 tbl margarine (melted or at least softened)
1 package yeast (1 scant tbl) proofed in 1/4 cup warm water and 2 tbl sugar
1 tsp baking soda
2 tsp salt
3 - 4 1/2 cup flour

Heat the yogurt until almost boiling.  Pour it over the oatmeal and stir and
let stand a while so the oatmeal softens.  Add margarine and
sugar/molasses/honey.  When cooled to lukewarm add the yeast mixture and the
sourdough starter.

Sift 1 cup flour and baking soda and salt and add.  Mix with a wooden spoon
until smooth.  Cover and let rise.

Add the rest of the flour mixing it in.  When it's too stiff to mix, continue
mixing in the bowl with your hands.  When it's no longer sticky, turn onto a
floured board and knead, adding flour as needed.

Let the dough rise.  Punch down, divide into two loaves, shape and place in
greased loaf pans.  Let the dough rise again.  Bake at 400 degrees for 35-40
minutes.


Variations: 

Add 1 cup shredded mozerella, montaray jack or munster cheese to the oatmeal
mixture.  This bread will last *forever*.  We took it in the car on a road
trip for 5 days and on the 5th day it was as fresh as on the first day.
Furthermore the consistency of this bread is very good; it can be sliced very
thinly without crumbling.

Substitute 2 cups whole wheat flour for the oatmeal.  Add 1 cup shredded
cheese.


.
Tomato-Cheese Sourdough Bread (Based on recipe in _Sourdough Cookery_ page 50)

Really MARVELOUS bread!  Quickly disappears at parties.

Yield: two *large* round loaves

1 cup refreshed starter
1 28 oz can Italian plum tomatoes
1/2 can tomato paste
2 pkgs (2 tbl) yeast proofed in 1/4 cup water and 2 tbl sugar
3/4 - 1 lb extra sharp cheddar cheese, grated
1/2 tsp baking powder
2-3 tbl margarine or butter, melted
2 tsp salt
6 cups flour

Remove tomatoes from their juice and dice them into small pieces.  Add diced
tomatoes, about half of the juice from the canned tomatoes, tomato paste and
cheese to the starter mixture.  Add the melted margarine.  Mix.  Add the
yeast.

Sift baking powder and salt with 2 cups of flour.  Add to the starter mixture.
You should have a slurry the consistancy of brownie batter (add another cup of
flour if need be).

Let the slurry rise until doubled in bulk.  Add the rest of the flour 1 cup at
a time.  When the mixture is too stiff to stir, continue adding flour while
kneading it in the bowl.  Turn out onto a floured board and knead (while
adding flour as neede).  The dough should be very smooth and silky.

The dough rise until doubled.  It rises fairly quickly.  Punch down and divide
into 2 or 2 1/2 loaves.  Form into loaves and place in greased loaf pans or
greased 8-9" pie pans.  I use 2 pie pans and a small half-loaf pan; the round
loaves are huge!  Let rise.  Bake at 375 degrees for about 40 minutes.

Variation: add some refreshed dried tomatoes.  You might want to cut down on
the tomato paste and tomato juice with this variation.

.
Superb Margherita Pizza (Based on recipe in _Sourdough Cookery_ page 212) 
2 very large pizzas (actually almost enough dough for 3 pizzas)

1 1/2 cups replenished sourdough starter
1 cup scalded milk
1 1/2 tsp salt
2 tbl butter or margarine
1 tbl yeast proofed in 1/4 cup water and 2 tbl sugar)
3-4 cup flour

olive oil
1/2 cup fresh basil leaves
handful fresh oregano leaves (optional)
3 cloves garlic, peeled and diced
oil
1 large can Italian plum tomatoes, diced (or 1 1/2 cans preferred)
Mozzerella cheese
1/8 - 1/4 cup parmesan cheese 

Put margarine in milk so it melts.  Add salt.  Let milk mixture cool.  When
cooled add to yeast.  Add 1 cup flour.  If you have time, let this slurry
rise.  If you don't, add the rest of the flour.  Knead the dough, it will be
fairly soft and silky.  Let rise.  Divide into two (or 3?) and line a greased
pizza pan or 16"x13" pan.

Heat some oil in a saucepan.  Add the garlic and fry until brown.  Add the
diced tomatoes.  Reserve the juice in case you decide you want it later.  Stir
the tomatoes and cook them lightly until you get a nice tomatoe sauce.  It
won't be too thick and it will be quite chunky.

Spread a very thin layer of olive oil over the pizza crust.  Place the basil
and oregano leaves on the pizza.  Pour tomato sauce on top of the fresh herbs.
Cover with shredded mozerella cheese.  Put a small amount of parmesan cheese
on top.  Be sure to let the pizza rise for about 30 minutes or it will come
out real flat and cardboardy. Then bake at 425 degrees for about 25 minutes.

This is WONDERFUL pizza and it keeps much longer than most comercial pizzas
(it's still good almost a week later!).  Reheat in the oven instead of the
nuke if possible of course.  Very very very tasty.

Variations: 

- you can top a pizza with pesto and refreshed dried tomatoes.  I'ld probably
add a bit of cheese, but you don't have to.  That's the yuppie variation.

- Top with slices of fresh tomatoes before baking

- Substitute (lightly cooked) spinach for the basil, add mushrooms, top with 
sliced fresh tomatoes.

.
Carl Gohs' Bread (from Beard on Bread, page 37)

The first time I made this I thought it was wonderful.  Later attempts did not
seem quite as moist nor did they rise as high.  I think you should not use
more than about 3/4 cup of WW flour.  This bread is alot of work, but very
tasty.

3 pkgs (3 tbl) yeast refreshed in 1/2 cup water and 1 tbl brown sugar (or 2 tbl
.white sugar)
4 1/4 cups flour
3/4 cup whole wheat flour
1 med potato, unpeeled, boiled in 2 cups water
1 cup wheat germ
1/2 cup dried milk
2 tsp salt

Proof the yeast until it gets a 2" head.  Add 1/2 cup flour and stir until
it's a smooth paste.  Set this sponge aside to rise for about an hour.  Each
time it doubles in bulk, stir it down.

Boil potato until it is done.  Place it in a potato ricer.  SAVE the water!
Push the potato through the ricer until you have a very smooth mashed potato.
Measure 1 1/2 cups potato water (add tap water if you have to).  Add the
mashed potato to the water and set aside to cool.


Combine whole wheat flour, 1 cup regular flour, wheat germ, dried milk and
salt.  Stir well.  When potato mixture has cooled and yeast mixture has been
deflated at least two times, add both to the flour mixture.  Stir until all
ingredients are well blended.  Add up to another 1 cup of flour until mixture
is a slurry the consistency of brownie mixture.  Cover and set aside to rise.

Add the rest of the flour and knead the bread.  Let rise about 1-2 hours until
doubled in bulk.  Divide in two and form into loaves.  Place in greased loaf
pans and let rise again.  Preheat oven to 450 degrees.  Immediately reduce
heat to 400 degrees when you put the bread into the oven.  Bake for 40
minutes.

.
Cracked Wheat Bread (from Beard on Bread, pg 71)

This is a MARVELOUS bread that I really like

1/2 cup of mixture of bulgher wheat and pearl barley (I use about 2/3 wheat and
.1/3 barley)
3/4 cup boiling water
1 package yeast (1 tbl) proofed in 1/2 cup water and 2 tbl sugar
1/4 cup margarine or butter
2 tsp salt
2 tbl molasses
2 tbl honey
1 cup milk
1 cup whole wheat flour
4 cups white flour

Pour the boiling water over the cracked wheat + barley, cover tightly and let
stand for 30 minutes until cooked.

Scald the milk and add the butter, salt, molasses and honey.  Cool to lukewarm
then add to yeast mixture.  Add the whole wheat flour and up to 1 cup of the
white flour.  When the mixture is about as stiff as brownie dough cover it and
let it rise.

Add the rest of the flour, knead and let rise.  Divide into two loaves, put
into greased pans and let rise.  Bake at 375 degrees for 30-35 minutes.

This is one of my favorite recipes and it always seems to come out
wonderfully!!!

.
Oatmeal Bread (from Beard on Bread pg 90)

This bread is somewhat heavy and dense but is very good toasted with cheese on
top.  One of my other cookbooks has an oatmeal and swiss cheese recipe and
that sounds like an interesting variation.  

1 cup oatmeal
1 cup boiling water
2 pkg yeast (2 tbl) proofed in 1/2 cup warm water and 1 tbl sugar
1 cup scalded milk
3 tbl margarine or butter
1 tbl salt
1/4 cup brown sugar (or honey)
4-5 cups flour

Cook the oats in the water until thickened, about 3 minutes.  Add the warm
milk, salt, brown sugar or honey and margarine.  Mix together. Let cool. 

When cooled add the yeast.  Add about 1-2 cups of flour until mixture has
consistency of brownie batter.  Let rise.  Add the rest of the flour.  Knead, 
adding flour as needed. 

Let rise.  Punch down and divide into two.  Form into loaves and place in
greased loaf pans.  Let rise.  Bake 45-50 minutes at 375 degrees.  CAUTION: my
notes say to check them after 35-40 minutes!

.
Whole Wheat Rollup Loaves, 2 loaves, 
.roughly based on Cinnamon Swirl Loaf in The Complete Book of Breads

A very soft WW bread that has various treats rolled up in it.  When I made it
I found that the bread tended to seperate and get huge holes between the
filling and the bread.  I don't know how to solve this problem.  The idea came
from a spinach and feta rollup that Kim got at Ludgates.

Place.2 cup white flour
.1 tsp salt
in mixing bowl

Heat.1 1/4 cup milk (or yogurt)
Add .1/4 cup margarine

Proof 1 1/2 package yeast (1 1/2 tbl) in 1/4 cup warm water and 1 tbl sugar

Add 1/4 cup honey to milk and margarine mixture.  Let cool until lukewarm.

When cooled, add milk and yeast mixtures to the dry ingredients.  Mix with a
mixer on medium for 2 minutes.

Add .2 eggs
.3/4 cup wheat germ (and/or oat bran, etc)
.3/4 cup whole wheat flour
.1/4 cup shredded fresh herb such as basil (optional)

Mix 3 minutes more.  Should be a medium thick dough

Let rise

Add .1 1/2 - 2 1/2 cup flour (4 1/2 - 5 1/2 cup flour TOTAL)
.
Knead.  Let rise.  Divide into two.  Roll each half out flat.  Spread with
filling.  Roll up.  Pinch *TIGHTLY* shut.  Let rise.  I do not know how to
prevent the dough from seperating from the filling.

Bake at 350 degrees for 40 minutes.  Test with a toothpick.

Possible fillings: 
.shredded cheese and diced ham
.shredded chesse and pieces of spinach

It may be helpful to spread the dough with a thin layer of butter or
room-temperature cream cheese or ricotta before adding the filling.  When I
spread the dough with cream cheese, the dough did NOT seperate from the cream
cheese.  This implies you might have to spread the cream cheese on both sides
of the dough before rolling it up?

Idea: Try twisting the bread after you make a loaf and before you put it
in the pan.  Twist it 1-2 times.  This won't prevent the holes, but it will
make it so the holes swirl through the loaf instead of cutting the loaf into
multiple pieces horizontally.

Despite the holes, this is a very good bread.  Very soft and light.  Almost
like a soft dinner roll.

.
Herb Bread (based on Potato Bread in The Complete Book of Bread)

Proof 1 package of yeast in 1/4 cup warm water and 1-2 tbl sugar

Boil 3 small potatoes in 2 cups water and rice them (see Carl Goh's bread
above).  Result:
.1 1/2 cup potato water
.3/4 cup boiled, riced potato

Combine potato, potato water with
.1/2 cup butter
.1 tsp salt
.1 tbl sugar
.1/2 cup dried milk
When cooled, add the yeast mixture.

Add 2 - 2 1/2 cup flour to make a slurry the consistency of brownie batter.
(Or use 1 cup flour and 1 cup wheat germ).  Stir to remove most of the lumps.
Let rise for an hour or more.  

Add 4-6 cups flour and knead.  The dough is very soft and smooth!  Let rise
for an hour or more.  Knead for a few more minutes and divide into three
pieces.

Roll each piece out flat.  Sprinkle with some fresh herbs (one herb per loaf),
such as:
.1 tbl diced fresh basil
.2 tsp diced fresh rosemary
.2 tsp diced fresh oregano
.fresh dill
.savory
.marjaram
.thyme

Fold up each piece and knead it to distribute the herbs.  Make each piece into
a loaf (or put in a 8-9" pie pan) and let rise.  Bake at 375 degrees.

.
Wheat and Oat Bread (Based on recipe in _Complete Book of Bread_)

This is a MARVELOUS Bread!!! It's extremely tasty and very good warm from the
oven.  It's also good lightly toasted or even completely toasted.  It's sweet,
you could cut back the honey, but it's GOOD!

2 packages yeast proofed in 1/2 cup warm water and 1 tbl sugar
1 cup oatmeal
2 tsp salt
2 tbl margarine or butter
1 cup raisens 
  (or substitute dried apples or other dried fruit for some of the raisens)
1 cup bran (I used wheat bran)
2 3/4 cup boiling water
3/4 cup molasses (I used half molasses and half honey!)
1 cup whole wheat flour
6 cups white flour

Proof the yeast.

Combine oatmeal, salt, margarine, raisens and bran.  Pour the boiling water
over this.  Stir and set aside to cool.  This may take a half hour or more.
Add the molasses/honey.  Test the mixture with your wrist.  When lukewarm add
the yeast mixture.  Stir in the WW flour and 1-2 cups of white flour.  When
the dough has the consistency of brownie batter, cover it and let it sit aside
to rise until doubled in bulk.

Add the rest of the flour.  When too stiff to mix, continue to add flour while
kneading it within the bowl.  When dough is no longer sticky, turn onto a
floured board and knead while adding flour.

This dough is a very rich, moist, firm dough.  It has a very warm and rich
feeling, and a sweet wholesome smell.  Be sure to knead it thoroughly. 

Let dough rise.  Punch down and knead for a few more minutes.  Divide into two
(or 2 1/2) pieces.  Form loaves and place in greased loaf pans.  Let rise.
Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour (check it before then).  Remember that the loaf
is fairly dark in color so don't try to judge doneness just by color!

.
Cheddar Cheese Bread (based on recipe in _Complete Book of Bread_)

A very tasty bread, appropriate for any party.  The cheddar cheese flavor is
strong, so you should probably serve this with just butter or cream cheese;
the flavor may be too strong for sandwiches.  The consistency of the bread is
good, it crumbles a bit, but not too much.  Very very rich because of all the
cheese.

Yield: 2 loaves

2 cups water
2 tsp salt (or 1&1/2 tsp if you use salty margarine)
2-3 tbl butter or margarine
1/2 cup dried milk
12 oz === 3 cups grated extra sharp cheddar
.you can add some parmesan or another type of cheese if desired
1 package yeast proofed with 1/4 cup warm water and 1/4 cup or less sugar
6 cups bread flour

Heat the water until it boils.  If you have a microwave, heat it in a 4 cup
pyrex measuring cup.  When it's boiling, add the cheese, salt, butter, dried
milk.  Stir.  The cheese should start to melt right away.  Stir to encourage
the cheese to melt and to mix the ingredients together.

(Alternatively: add 2/3 of the cheese to the water and reserve the last cup of
cheese for adding with the flour.)

When cheese mixture has cooled, place in a large bowl.  Add a cup or two of
flour, which will cool it further.  Add the yeast mixture.  Add another cup of
flour.  When the mixture is the consistency of brownie dough, let it sit for
about 30-60 minutes so it rises.

Continue adding flour 1 cup at a time.  You may need more than the 6 cups
recommended.  Mix in the flour, then turn the dough onto a board and knead it.
Knead for 10 minutes or until it is the right consistency and no longer
sticky.

Let rise for up to an hour.  I find that this particular bread rises *very*
fast.

Form into two loaves.  You might prefer round loaves, but I usually make
rectangular loaves.  Let rise 30-60 minutes; again, it rises very quickly!

Bake at 375 degrees for 30 - 45 minutes.  The book specifies 45 minutes, but I
find this too long.  The bread browns very quickly.  Check it after 20 minutes
and if it is very brown, consider turning the oven down to 350 degrees.  Cook
until loaves are well browned and cooked through.  I find that this bread
cooks very quickly and is usually done in 35 minutes or so.


.
Rice Bread

In _English Bread and Yeast Cookery_, Elizabeth David says that she has come
across several recipes that add cooked rice to bread.  She feels that the rice
improves the keeping quality of the bread.  She suggests adding a maximum of
1/2 cup raw rice for each loaf of bread.  She also likes using brown rice.

I made the following recipe with brown rice.  The bread was fairly dense and
full of rice kernel munchies (like crunchies, but no crunch!).  It was very
good bread when lightly toasted or warmed and topped with melted cheese.

This recipe combines David's suggestion with the standard homemade bread
recipe in Beard's book.

3/4 cup brown rice
1/4 cup barley
1 1/2 cup water
Cook the brown rice and barley in the water until done.  This will take about
45 minutes.  Set aside to cool.  Note: you can also use cooked white rice.  I
usually cook 1 cup of rinsed white rice in 1 3/4 cup water.

1 package of yeast
2 tbl sugar
1/4 cup warm water
Proof the yeast in the water and sugar.  Optionally add about 1/4 cup after the
first rising and let the yeast proof again.

2 cup scalded milk
1/4 cup melted butter (it will melt in the hot milk) (or slightly more)
2 tsp salt
1/2 cup wheat germ
Combine.  Add the rice mixture.  Set aside and let cool.  If you stir it it
will cool slightly faster.

When the milk/rice mixture has cooled to a baby's milk temperature, add the
yeast mixture.  Add 1-2 cups of flour to make a sponge the consistency of
brownie batter.  Let the sponge rise.

Add another 2-4 cups of flour.  Knead the bread thoroughly.  Shape into 2 or 2
1/2 loaves and let the loaves rise.  The bread doesn't seem to rise much in
the oven so let the loaves rise as high as you want them.  Bake at 400 degrees
for 40-45 minutes.


.
Dilly Casserole Bread (from Complete Book of Bread)

According to one cookbook, the original dill (or double dill) bread was a
prize winning recipe in the 19XX (1920?) World's Fair and since then there
have been many variations.  The key ingredients are cottage cheese and dill
seeds or weed. 

I haven't actually made this bread but I keep meaning to.  I think there's a
recipe in every cookbook, this one is from CBoB.

1 pkg yeast
1/4 cup water
1 cup cottage cheese at room temperature
2 tbl sugar
1 tbl instant onion bits
2 tsp dill seeds (or dill weed (or both?!))
1 tsp salt
1/4 tsp baking soda
1 egg
2 1/4 - 2 1/2 cup flour
Glaze: 1/2 tsp melted butter to brush top and sprinkle of salt

Grease a 1 1/2 qt casserole dish (approx 7" diameter, 4" deep).  I'm sure a 
loaf pan will also work!

Proof yeast.

In a saucepan heat cottage cheese until warm to the touch.  Pour cottage
cheese into bowl with yeast and add sugar, onion bits, dill seeds (or weed),
salt, baking soda and egg.  Add flour, a half cup at a time, to make a stiff
batter.  BEat will after each addition.

Cover and let rise.  Stir down and turn into casserole dish.  Cover and let rise again.  NOTE: Beard on Bread DOES knead this bread!!!

Cover and let rise again.  Bake at 350 degrees until deep brown and crusty.
Check with a toothpick. Cover with foil or brown paper for the last 15 minutes
to prevent excesive browning.

Remove bread from oven.  Immediately brush with butter and sprinkle lightly
with salt.  Allow to cool for 10 minutes before removing it from the casserole
dish.

.
From: mqh@eagle.TC.cornell.edu (Mike Hojnowski (AIX Grunt))
Subject: Garlic Potato Bread
Date: Mon, 25 Nov 91 22:46:38 EST

>From A World of Breads by Dolores Casella

This is a highly unusual but delicious bread.  It's best served at barbecues,
or with a hearty meal.  I always serve it with barbecued spareribs.

.1 large potatoe, boiled, cooled, and grated (1 1/2 cups grated potato)
.1 large clove garlic put through a garlic press
.1 teaspoon salt
.1 cup warm potato water
.1 cake yeast
.2 teaspoons sugar
.2 cups flour
.softened butter

Combine the potato, garlic (use more garlic if desired), salt, potato 
water, yeast, and sugar.  Stir until the yeast is dissolved and then add the
flour.  You will have to finish mixing this dough with your hands.  When it
is thoroughly blended, brush the top of the dough with soft butter, cover,
and let rise until doubled.  Punch the dough down and turn it into a well-
buttered 8 or 9-inch skillet.  Brush the top of the dough with soft butter
again and let rise again.  Bake in a 425 degree oven until well browned and
done, approximately 25 to 30 minutes.


.
>From Laura Marks:

Oat Bread, 4 loaves

3 cups rolled oats
3 cups whole wheat flour
7/8 cup honey
4 tbl butter
1 tbl salt
4 cups boiling water
2 pkg yeast
pinch of sugar
3/4 cup warm water
unbleached white flour, enough to make a solid dough (probably 4-6 cups)

Combine the oats, whole wheat flour, honey, butter and salt in a large bowl.
Pour the boiling water over it.  Stir.  Allow to cool until lukewarm.

Combine the yeaast, sugar and warm water.  Proof the yeast in a warm oven.
Stir into the (cooled) oats mixture.

Add enough white flour to make a solid dough.  The dough will be sticky
because of the honey.  Knead for 10 minutes, incorporating flour as needed.
Let rise in a bowl for one hour or more.  Punch down; let rise again for about
45 minutes.  Divide into four loaves.  Place in greased and floured loaf pans.
Let rise to top of pan (or higher).  Bake at 350 degrees for about 35 minutes.
Turn out and enjoy a piece warm.


.
>From Laura Marks:

Wheat Berry Honey Bread (4 loaves)

3/4 cup wheat berrys
1 cup water
1 cup honey
2 cups milk
4 tbl butter
1 tbl salt
4 eggs
3 pkgs yeast
1 cup wheat germ
5 cups whole wheat flour
4-5 cups unbleached white flour

Combine the wheat berries and water in a heavy pan.  Bring to a boil and boil
for 2 minutes.  Let sit for 1 hour.

Scald the milk and add honey, butter and salt.  Cool to lukewarm.

Beat the eggs in a large bowl.  Add milk and wheat berries (cooled).  Add
yeast.  Stir in wheat germ.  Stir in whole wheat flour.  

Knead in the white flour.  Add enough flour to have a firm dough.  It will be
sticky because of the honey.  Let rise about 1 hour.  Punch down and divide
into four pieces.  Place in greased and floured loaf pans.  Let rise about 45
minutes until dough reaches top of pans.  Bake at 350 degrees for 35 minutes.
Turn off oven and let cook another five minutes.  Turn out and enjoy a piece
warm.

Note this bread falls apart if used for meat sandwiches.

.
>From Sandy Kisner.  Source unknown (pg 61)

Wheat-Berry Bread

1/2 cup wheat berries
1 cup boiling water
1 cup cold water
2 cups warm water (110-115 degrees F)
2 tbl dry yeast (2 pkgs)
1/4 cup honey
1 tbl salt
1/4 cup oil
(1 cup oats optional)
8 cups whole wheat flour
2-4 cups unbleached white flour

Place the wheat berries with the boiling water in a saucepan and simmer until
the water is absorbed, about 20 minutes.  Add the cold water and trasfer the
mixture to a large bowl.  Add the warm water and check the temperature (it
should be lukewarm).  Add the yeast and all of the other ingredients except
the white flour.

Mix the dough thoroughly with a wooden spoon, then add half of th ewhite flour
and befin to knead.  Keep adding flour until the dough is easy to handle and
will keep its shape.  Knead for 7-8 minutes.

Put the dough in a greased bowl and turn it greased side up.  Cover it and put
it in a warm place to rise until it has doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.

Punch down the dough, knead it briefly to break up any large bubbles and cut
it in half.  Make two round loaves and put them on a baking sheet that has
been sprinkled with corn meal.  (Alternatively use 3 greased loaf pans.)  Use
a sharp knife to cut a cross in the center of each loaf.

Put the pan in a cold oven and turn on the heat to 350 degrees (or use a
preheated oven).  Bake for about 1 hour or until the bread is brown and sounds
hollow when tapped on the bottom.

For an extra-crisp crust, brush the loaves with cold water several times
during baking.

Cool on racks.

.
>From Sandy Kisner.  Source, NYTimes, date unknown

Challeh, 3 loaves

4 cups hot water (or substitute 1 cup of yogurt or milk)
1/2 tsp tumeric (or saffron if you're feeling rich)
2 tbl yeast
2 tbl salt
1/2 cup honey
1/2 cup wheatgerm (optional)
1/2-1 cup dried milk powder
2-4 eggs beaten (extra yolks or whites are welcome)
1/2 cup oil
About 8-10 cups unbleached white flour, enough to make a soft, unsticky dough

Dissolve the tumeric or saffron in the hot water along with the yeast and
salt.  Add the rest of the ingredients in order, working in as much flour as
possible while the dough is still in the bowl (this saves a lot of counter
cleanup afterwards).  Oil the counter, turn out the dough and knead it for 5-8
minutes until it feels smooth and springy and the surface blisters.

Form the dough int a ball, place it in an oiled bowl or pot, oil the top of th
edough lightly and cover it with a cloth or plastic wrap.  When the dough has
doubled in bulk, punch it down, turn it out on the counter an divide it into
thirds (each of these will eventually be one loaf of bread or pan of rolls).
You can bake Challeh in a traditional rectangular bread pan if desired.

Now the fun begins.  Take one of these pieces of dough and divide it into four
even parts.  Roll three of them into ropes about the length of your bread
pans.

Braid these ropes together in this way: attach the ropes at one end by
pinching them firmly together; cross the rope on the right over the rope in
the center; cross the rope on the left over the rope in the center; repeat
until you run our of rope and then pinch the ends together.

You now have completed the big braid for the bottom of the challeh and will
now make the thin braid as follows: divide the fourth part of the dough, which
has been waiting patiently for you to get around to it, into three parts and
braid these just as you did the big braid.  Place this thin braid on top of
the big one, right down the middle lengthwise, so the braids are going in the
same direction.  Pinch the ends to secure the braids together and place in a
well-oiled bread pan.  Brush the top well with an egg yolk beaten with a tsp
or two of water (which is sufficient to glaze all three loaves of challeh) and
then sprinkle generously with either sesame or poppy seeds.

This method of braiding (which my grandmother would have called cheating since
it doesn't braid together eight ropes) is easy once you get the knack, which
you can develop by practicing with string.  It produces breads that are high
and beautiful to look at witht he texture characteristic of challeh.  Don't
ask me why, but a braided loaf of challeh tastes different than a regularly
shapped one.

With the other two sections of dough waiting to be formed, you can either
repeat the above process, in which case you will have three challehs (they
freeze very well), or you can do a number of variations.  The simplest and one
of the best is to knead about a cup of raisens into one of the sections and
then braid it as above, paint it with eggyolk and sprinkle it with seeds.
This is a classic raisin challeh and guarenteed to disappear very quickly.

When you have prepared all your loaves, let them rise until light and high,
place them in the oven, set it at 350 degrees and bake them for about an hour.
Take the baked loaves from the oven, let them sit for about 10 minutes and
then remove them from their pans to let them cool on racks (the oven racks are
fine so long as you leave the oven door open)

.
Whole Wheat Bread

The following recipe is basically from _The Laurel's Kitchen Bread Book_.
This book contains about 200 recipes that all use *only* whole wheat flour.
None of the recipes use white flour.  At first I believed this would make a
brick; but I found that it makes a bread that's very chewy and, while not
particularly light, very good.

I believe the key is to knead the dough *alot*.  tLKBB claims that if you make 
two loaves you'll have to knead the bread twice as long!

This recipe is based on the main recipe in tLKBB, but it includes some
modifications that I used.

1/4 cup - 6 tbl warm water
1 pkg yeast (tLKBB says 1 tsp)
2 tsp sugar
3 cups whole wheat flour, finely ground
1 tsp salt 
1 cup milk, scaled and cooled
.(or 1/3 cup cold yogurt mixed with 2/3 cup hot tap water per tLKBB)
2 tbl oil
1 & 1/2 tbl honey


Use hot tap water to warm up a small bowl.  Place the warm water and sugar in
the warmed bowl and mix them.  Slowly pour the yeast over the water making
sure to get all of the yeast mixed in.  Set it aside to proof.

Scald the milk and add the honey.  Let the mixture cool until lukewarm.

Place about 2 & 1/2 cups of flour in a bowl and mix in the salt.  I sifted the
flour.  Make a well in the center.  Pour in the milk and yeast mixtures.
Start mixing the dry and wet ingredients; start by stiring the mixture in the
center and gradually widen the spiral and incorporate the flour in the bowl.
Slowly add the last 1/2 cup of flour until you get a stiff dough that and you
can't add any more flour.  You should use most of the flour.

You may wish to knead the dough still in the bowl a bit to get the kneading
started.  I often do this to get the dough well mixed together.

tLKBB suggests using water instead of flour while kneading the dough.  I did
this and it worked well.  The kneading changes the dough from a sticky mess to
a firm dough that's barely sticky.  You can use either flour or water to keep
the dough from sticking to the counter.

Place a small bowl of warm water next to your kneading board or counter.  Wet
your hand and rub it over your kneading board until there's a light film of
water on the surface.  Also rub water over your hands until they are slightly
wet.

Place the dough on the counter.  In one hand hold a metal spatula that you
will use to collect the dough while it's still very sticky.  With your free
hand, press out the dough in the typically kneading manner.  With the spatula,
scrape the dough up from the counter and recreate one pile of dough.  This is
a slightly strange method of kneading, but you'll get the hang of it very
quickly.  Once the dough starts to get firm you won't need the spatula and
you'll be able to knead with both hands.

tLKBB states that you should knead a single loaf of bread for 300 kneading
strokes.  If you are making two loaves you will need (knead) 600 strokes.  I
found that I used about 350 strokes.  About every 50 strokes put a bit more
water on your kneading board and your hands (and take a brief rest).  When
kneading by hand it's almost impossible to overknead and you really want this
dough well kneaded or it will be heavy.

Per tLKBB, "When the dough is fully developed, it will pull into a paperthin
sheet, smooth and bright.  When you hold it to the light, you can see the
webbing of the gluten strands in the sheet".  In particular you should be able
to stretch a fairly small piece into a sheet that's about 4" in diameter and
is so thin that it resembles paper or fabric.  You should be able to do this
with only an occassional tear; if you have trouble doing this or the dough
keeps tearing knead it some more!  You will see flecks of the whole wheat bran
in between white sections of dough.  Apparently if your wheat is ground
extremely fine you will see a dough with a beige color and may not see many
flakes of bran.

Remember, it's almost impossible to overknead the dough if you are working it
by hand.  Knead it until you are sure it's fully kneaded!

tLKBB says that you should not grease the bowl that you use for rising the
dough.  Wash your original bowl and place the dough into it.  Cover it and set
it someplace out of drafts to rise.  tLKBB suggests placing it on a towl that
is over a heating pad.  Let the bread rise until about double in bulk.

Punch the dough down and let it rest for about 10 minutes.  Then shape it into
one loaf of bread.  Let it rise a second time until it is spongy.  When you
press it with your fingers the indentation should fill slowly.  If the bread
rises too much at this step (e.g. if the dent from touching it doesn't fill
slowly) it won't rise again in the oven (aka "oven spring").  If the loaf has
risen over the top of your pan you can slash it down the top to allow it to
rise even more in the oven.

Bake at 350 degrees for one hour.  If the bread if fairly brown after 30
minutes, reduce the oven temperature to 325 degrees.

tLKBB describes each of these steps in incredible detail.  If you're really
interested in whole wheat breads read a copy of the first chapters of this
book. 

.

The following recipe is from a company cookbook put out by the
Stone-Buhr Milling Company of Seattle, Wash., called 'Cooking With
Gourmet Grains'.

SWISS OATMEAL BREAD        The Swiss cheese gives this bread a unique
                           taste. It's good toasted or in toasted cheese
...   sandwiches!

 1 1/2  cups milk                     1/2  cup  warm water
   1/4  cup  firmly packed brown        2  pkgs active dry or cake yeast
             sugar                      2  cups uncooked regular rolled oats
     2  tsp  salt                       1  cup  grated Swiss cheese
     3  Tbs  butter or margarine        4  cups unsifted all-purpose flour

    Scald milk.  Stir in brown sugar, salt and margarine.  Cool to lukewarm.
Measure warm water into large warm bowl. Sprinkle or crumble in yeast, stir
until dissolved. Stir in lukewarm milk mixture, rolled oats, Swiss cheese, and
half the flour. Beat until thoroughly blended. Stir in enough flour to make a
soft dough. Turn out onto a lightly floured board and knead until smooth and
elastic, about 10 minutes. Note that you will not be able to stretch the dough
too thin because of the oatmeal, but you can stretch it fairly thin with a
minimum of breaking.  Do not underknead!

Place in greased bowl, turning to grease top. Cover, let rise in warm place
free from drafts, until double in bulk, about 1 hour. Punch dough down. Turn
out onto lightly floured board.  Divide dough in half and shape into loaves.
Place into two greased 9 x 5 loaf pans. Cover, let rise in warm place, free
from draft, until double in bulk, about 1 hour.  Bake at 375 deg. F. about 35
minutes or until done.  (Or maybe a slightly lower temperature).  Remove from
pans and cool on wire rack.

Breads

1 Pound    1.5 Pound    
1C         1 1/2C    sour cream or yogurt, regular or low fat
1T         2T        canola oil
1C         1 1/2C    raisins
1t         1 1/2t    salt, to taste
1T         2T        dark brown sugar
1t         2t        cinnamon
1/2t       1t        ground cloves
2C         3C        unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2t     2t        regular active dry yeast


Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on raisin bread cycle.
Put raisins in at the beep(s).


Applesauce Bread (Bread Machine)

1 Pound    1.5 Pound    
1C         1 1/3C  applesauce, sweetened or unsweetened
2T         3T      unsalted butter or canola oil
1T         3T      honey
1/2C       1C      raisins
1/2C       1C      almonds or walnuts, coarsely chopped
1/4t       1/2t    cinnamon
1t         2t      salt, to taste
2C         3C      unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2t     2t      regular active dry yeast


Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on raisin bread cycle.
Put raisins in at the beep(s).


Light Whole Wheat Bread (Bread Machine)

1 Pound    1.5 Pound    
1C         1 1/2C    sour cream or yogurt, regular or low fat
1T         1 1/2T    canola oil
2T         3T        honey
1t         1 1/2t    salt, to taste
3/4C+1T    1 1/4C    water
1C         1 1/2C    whole wheat flour
1C+2T      1 2/3C    bread  flour
1 1/2t     2 1/4t    regular active dry yeast


Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on basic white bread
cycle.


Beer Bread (Bread Machine)

1 Pound    1.5 Pound    
1C         1 1/2C    flat beer
1T         2T        canola oil
2T         1/4C      sugar
2 1/4C     3 1/2C    unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2t     2t        regular active dry yeast


Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on basic white bread
cycle.



Garlic Herb Bread (Bread Machine)

1.5 Pound    
1C+1T     water
1/4C      olive oil
1/3C      nonfat dry milk
1t        salt
2 2/3C    unbleached all-purpose flour
2 1/2t    regular active dry yeast


Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on basic white bread
cycle.


Oatmeal Applesauce Bread (Bread Machine)

1.5 Pound    
3/4C+2T    apple cider or apple juice
1C         apple, peeled and chopped
1 1/2T     butter or oil
1 1/2T     sugar
1t         salt
2t         apple pie spice
2T         nonfat dry milk
1/3C       quick cooking oatmeal
3C         unbleached all-purpose flour
2 1/2t     regular active dry yeast


Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on basic white bread
cycle.


Carrot, Raisin and Nut Bread (Bread Machine)

1 Pound      1.5 Pound    
1/4C         1/3C      water
1            1         egg
2T           3T        canola oil
1/4C         1/4C+2T   sugar
1t           1 1/2t    salt
1t           1 1/2t    ground cinnamon
1t           1 1/2t    ground ginger
1/2C         3/4C      rye flour
1 1/2C       2 1/4C    finely chopped or grated carrots
1 3/4C+1T    2 3/4C    bread flour
1/4C         1/2C      raisins
1/4C         1/2C      chopped walnuts

Follow your bread machine manufacturer's instructions for
ingredient's order and yeast handling.  Bake on raisin bread cycle.
Add raisins and nuts at the beep(s).

      Title: A 14-Minute Maple Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      4 c  Maple sirup
      1 c  Cream
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Nut meats, chopped
      1 ts Lemon extract
 
  Cook the maple sirup, cream, and butter for 9 minutes after the boiling
  point is reached.  Remove from heat, add the nut meats and extract and stir
  for 5 minutes. Pour into buttered pans and when cool, cut into squares.
  
  From: Culinary Arts Institute Encyclopedic CookBook Shared By: Pat Stockett

      Title: A 2-Minute Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 36
 
      1 lb Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  In a 1 1/2 qt. casserole, stir sugar, cocoa, salt, milk and vanilla
  together until partially blended (it will be too stiff to blend
  thoroughly).  Put butter over top in center of dish.  Microwave at high for
  2 minutes, or until smooth.  If all butter has not melted in cooking, it
  will as mixture is stirred.  Blend in nuts.  Pour into a lightly-buttered
  8x4x3" dish.  Chill 1 hour in refrigerator or 20 to 30 minutes in freezer.
  Cut into squares.  Makes about 36 squares.

      Title: Almond Nougat
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  2
 
  1 1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Water
      2    Egg whites
    1/2 ts Almond extract
           Red or green food coloring
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
      1 c  Toasted chopped almonds
    1/4 c  Chopped candied cherries
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix first 4 ingredients in heavy saucepan. Cook, stirring,
  until sugar is dissolved. Cook, without stirring, until a small amount of
  the mixture dropped in cold water forms a hard ball (250-F). Beat egg
  whites until stiff, but not dry, in large bowl of electric mixer. Gradually
  beat in about one fourth (not more) of the syrup, and continue beating
  until mixture holds its shape. Cook remaining syrup until a small amount of
  mixture separates into hard and brittle threads when dropped in cold water
  (300-F). Gradually beat into first mixture, and continue beating until the
  mixture begins to hold its shape. Add flavoring and food coloring to tint a
  delicate shade. Beat in butter; continue beating until very thick and
  satiny. Stir in nuts and cherries. Press into a buttered 8x8x2" pan,
  smoothing top. Let stand until firm. Turn out of pan, and cut in 1 1/2" by
  1" pieces. Wrap each piece individually in waxed paper. For best flavor,
  store several days in a cool place before serving.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin

     Title: Almond Paste
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Whole, Blanched Almonds (6
           -ozs. or 1 1/2 C slivered) 1
           -1/3 C Powdered Sugar
      2 tb Water
    1/2 ts Almond Extract
 
  (This costs 2.89 for 8ozs. commercially)
  
  Toast almonds on baking sheet at 300 oF for 10 min.  DO NOT BROWN!!! Cool
  them for 5 min.
  
  Procerss the almonds 1 min.  Add sugar, water, and extract and process 15
  sec. to form a ball.

      Title: Almond Roca
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  (1 pound) butter
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Whole almonds
      1 lg Package chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Walnuts ground in a blender
 
  Melt butter over high heat.  Add sugar, stirring until it foams up well.
  Continue over high heat, adding almonds.  Continue to cook, stirring
  continually until mixture is color of mahogany and sugar is all melted.
  (Take it off the heat for a moment if it starts to smoke.)
  
  Stir as you take it off the heat permanently and pour quickly onto your
  biggest flat pan with sides.  Tilt to spread evenly.  After 5 minutes, pour
  on chocolate chips. When they have melted a bit, spread them over the top
  of the hot mixture with a rubber scraper. Scatter ground walnuts over the
  top, shaking to distribute evenly.
  
  Candy is thoroughly cooled when the chocolate is dull looking. (Cool at
  least three hours at room temperature.) Break into pieces and it's ready to
  eat.

      Title: Almond Rocca
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Pecans, chopped (we use
           -chopped almonds on some
           -batches)
    3/4 c  Brown sugar (packed)
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine (butter
           -makes it richer)
    1/2 pk (6 oz size) semisweet
           -chocolate chips. (1/2 cup)
 
  Almond Rocca: This is not for Almond Roca, yet it is close enough and it is
  real easy. In fact my 14 year old daughter has been making it by herself at
  christmas for the past 4 years. Hope this will meet your needs. It comes
  from the Betty Crocker cookbook, so you may have it on hand already.
  
  Toffee: Butter square pan, 9x9x2 inches. Spread chopped nuts in pan. Heat
  sugar and butter to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, 7 minutes (watch it real close the last minute or
  two).  Immediately spread mixture evenly over nuts in pan. Sprinkle
  chocolate pieces over hot mixture; place a baking sheet over pan so
  contained heat will melt chocolate.  Spread melted chocolate over canndy.
  While hot, cut into 1 1/2 inch squares.  chill until firm.
  
  Now for the changes we use.
  
  When we are going to be giving this as a gift, we melt another 1/2 cup of
  chocolate in the microwave.  Use an 7x7x2 pan (or smaller than the 9x9x2).
  Spread the melted chocolate on top of the buttered pan that is covered with
  the nuts.  After the chocolate is spread on top, sprinkle more nuts on top,
  while chocolate is still warm. Then cut into small sizes. After the candy
  is set, remove from the pan and wrap individually with desert foil. I get
  mine at the bakery supply, or a craft shop.

      Title: Almond Roca
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 48
 
    1/4 c  Sliced almonds
    1/4 c  Water
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  White sugar
      3 oz Semisweet chocolate (3
           -squares)
 
  This superb candy treat is much less expensive than its commercial
  counterpart.
  
  In an electric frying pan at 300F, melt butter, add water, then almonds and
  sugar.  Turn temperature to 400 F and cook until a light golden brown,
  stirring continuously.  Pour almond mixture on a foil lined cookie pan and
  cool.  Melt chocolate squares in the top of a double boiler.  Pour and
  spread thinly over cooled candy.  Cool.  Break into pieces.  Store candy in
  refrigerator or freezer, it keeps indefinitely IF you hide it!  Makes 48
  pieces.
  
  Origin:  Homestyles, Canadian Classics Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
      Title: Almond Splinters
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 25
 
      9 oz Milk chocolate, broken into
           Pieces
      6 oz Slivered almonds, toasted
 
  Melt chocolate in top of a double saucepan over simmering water. Stir until
  smooth or microwave on HIGH for 2 minutes. Combine almonds and chocolate,
  drop teaspoonfuls of mixture onto foil-covered trays. Allow to set in a
  cool place; store in airtight container in cool place.
  
  Makes about 25.

      Title: Almond-Coffee Walnuts
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    2/3 c  Almond paste, room
           -temperature
      2 tb Coffee liqueur
      1 ts Instant coffee powder (not
           -granules)
     72    Walnut halves
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate, melted
 
  1.   Mix the almond paste, coffee liqueur and coffee powder until smooth.
  
  2.   Spread 1/2 tsp of the mixture on the flat side of a walnut half and
  top with another walnut half, forming a sandwich. Rep,eat with the
  remaining almond paste and walnuts.
  
  3.   Line a large baking sheet with wax paper.  Dip one end of the walnut
  in the melted chocolate and set on the baking sheet.  Repeats with the
  remaining filled walnuts walnuts and chocolate.  Refrigerate until the
  chocolate is set, about 30 minutes.  Cover with plastic wrap and store in
  refrigeration.

      Title: Aplets and Cotlets
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 64
 
      3 tb Gelatin
      3 c  Apple juice or unsweetened
           -apricot juice
  1 1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      2 tb Each lemon and lime juice,
           -or more as needed
    2/3 c  Cornstarch
      2 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Makes about 64 small cubes
  
  Soften the gelatin in 1/2 cup of the apple juice.  Boil remaining juice
  with the sugar for 15 minutes to concentrate it.  Mix the lemon and lime
  juice, and add all but 1/4 cup cornstarch to dissolve it in the mixture.
  Add both gelatin mixture and cornstarch mixture to the boiled juice and
  boil again rapidly for 10 minutes until very thick, stirring constantly.
  Taste for sweet and sour and add more lemon juice if wanted.
  
  Mix in the walnuts and pour mixture into a 9-by-9-by-2-inch baking pan that
  has been dipped in cold water.  Let paste harden 12 hours or overnight,
  then cut with a sharp knife into squares. Mix together the reserved 1/4 cup
  cornstarch and powdered sugar. Remove squares with a spatula and roll each
  in the powdered sugar mixture (the cornstarch helps keep the sugar dry).
  
  I Hear America Cooking From the collection of Jim Vorheis

      Title: Aplets
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  3
 
      4 tb Plain gelatin
      2 ts Lemon juice
  2 1/4 c  Unsweetened applesauce
      2 c  Chopped nuts
      2 ts Vanilla
      4 c  Sugar
           Confectioners' sugar
 
  Aplets are a great bar cookie for summertime or school lunch boxes! In
  Washington State, and other places where they are marketed, you can buy
  Aplets and Cotlets and Grapelets. With this recipe you can make your own.
  
  APLETS
  
  In cup or small bowl stir gelatin into 1 cup applesauce; set aside until
  gelatin dissolves. In medium saucepan stir sugar into remaining applesauce.
  Add gelatin dissolved in applesauce. Over medium heat, stir constantly and
  bring to boil; turn heat to lowest setting and simmer 15 minutes, stirring
  occasionally. Add lemon juice last 5 minutes of cooking. Remove from heat.
  Add vanilla and nuts. Pour into buttered 8-inch square pan. Cover loosely
  and let stand overnight. When firm, cut into 1 inch squares. Roll in
  confectioner's sugar.
  
  The recipe says it makes about 3 dozen squares.
 
      Title: Applesauce Fudgies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 16
 
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sweetened applesauce
      2    Eggs, beaten
      1 c  Brown sugar, firmly packed
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Choped walnuts
 
  Melt chcocolate and butter together. Mix applesauce, eggs, sugar and
  vanilla. Sift dry ingredients into applesauce mixture. Stir until blended;
  add chocolate and stir well. Pour into greased 9 inch square pan. Sprinkle
  with walnuts. Bake in 350F. oven for 30 minutes. Cut in 2 inch squares;
  cool in pan on racks. Makes 16. ** from FARM JOURNAL'S COUNTRY COOKBOOK
  
  From one of the head kooks at Rhinoceros Kitchen
 
      Title: Apricot Almond Bark
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb White chocolate
      2 tb Solid vegetable shortening
    1/2 c  Whole toasted almonds
      1 c  Apricot Jelly Belly beans
 
  Line a 10x15-inch jelly roll pan with waxed paper. Melt chocolate and
  shortening in the top part of a double boiler. Stir in almonds and jelly
  beans. Spread into prepared pans. Chill 10 minutes. Score into 2x3-inch
  bars with knife. When firm, cut bars apart.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: Best Recipes - March/April 1991
 
 
      Title: Baked Nut Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 ea Egg whites
      1 c  Peanuts; ground
      1 c  Brown sugar
 
  Beat egg whites until still. Add nuts and sugar, pour into shallow pan
  greased with butter. Bake in oven until light brown. Mark into squares when
  removed from oven. This will never fail unless allowed to burn.
  
  Source: Mrs. C. Duckworth, Community Grange, Shelby County, OH
 
 
      Title: Barb's Ohio Buckeyes
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  2
 
     12 oz Jar creamy peanut butter
    2/3 c  Softened margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Confectioner's sugar
      6 oz Package semi-sweet chocolate
           Chips
      6 oz Package milk chocolate chips
           -or, use 1 package chocolate
           -made for candy making
      3 tb Melted paraffin
 
  From: Bill Jernigan, COOKING echo
  
  Mix together.  Use hands to make into smooth 1 inch balls.  Chill.  With
  toothpick, dip all but the very top of balls into melted warm mixture--
  
  Drop onto wax paper to harden.  Chill.
  
  no rice krispies in this one, but i don't see why you couldn't add them to
  stretch it a bit, or to cut the incredible bliss of peanut butter and
  chocolate (chortle)...
 
      Title: Basic Creme Center
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
  2 1/2 lb Dry Candy Fondant
      1 c  Butter

    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  Mix first 2 ingred. & let set overnight <or for several hours> tightly
  covered. Add cream & whip with heavy duty mixer or by hand. Divide dough
  into separate bowls. <I divide into 3>. Makes nice batch of each. For each
  bowl, add whatever color/flavor, etc you like. Below are some ideas:
  Vanilla cremes: add vanilla ****to taste. Chocolate cremes: add melted dark
  chocolate to taste. Mint center: add drops of peppermint oil & pink
  coloring. Black Walnut center: add drops black walnut oil & bl walnuts.
  Peanutbutter cremes: add smooth or crunchy peanut butter. Pineapple cremes:
  add drops pineapple oil, chopped candied pineapple & chopped pecans. Jelly:
  add fruit "flavored" jelly into candy mold with matching flavored oil
  w/creme center. Nut center: wrap creme center mix around a nut meat as
  filling; dip in white/tinted, or milk chocolate. Chocolate covered cherries
  <cream type:> wrap creme center  mix around a well-drained marachino
  cherry...be sure the cherry is SEALED in the dough, chill & dip in choc.*
  Be sure to dip as soon as removing from fridge. The acid in the cherry
  causes it to start cordialing <liquifying> quickly. Will liquify some, but
  some will remain "creamy" because of the butter. Coconut cremes: add
  maccaroon coconut & drops or coconut oil For any dipped cremes: Form 1"
  balls, let crust over & dip in compound coating chocolate. This is also
  called "dipping chocolate." I prefer the brand "Merckens." It seems to take
  more abuse/ reheating, or getting too hot, etc. Dolores McCann, Hamilton
  Ohio
     Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
      Title: Basic Divinity
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  White Sugar, Granulated
    1/2 c  Light Corn Syrup
    1/2 c  Water
      1 pn Salt
      2 lg Egg Whites
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 c  Nuts, Chopped *
 
  * Chopped cherries or chopped orange peels may be used in place of chopped
  nuts.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NOTE:  To prewarm a candy thermometer, simply place it in a sauce pan of
  cold water and bring it to a boil.  Let it simmer until you need the
  thermometer. STEP 1: Prewarm the thermometer; separate the eggs allowing
  the whites to come to room temperature in a large bowl of an electric
  mixer.  (Return the egg yolks to the refrigerator covering with plastic
  wrap or water for another recipe.) Fill a glass with ice cubes and water.
  To make dropped divinities, you will need 2 cookie sheets, topped with
  greased wax paper. For squares, use a greased and wax paper-lined 8 X
  8-inch pan.  Measure the sugar, corn syrup, ice water and salt and dump
  into a heavy 2-quart saucepan with a tight fitting lid. STEP 2: Dissolve
  the sugar, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon over low heat. Syrup
  will become clear, gritty sounds will cease, and the spoon will glide
  smoothly over the bottom of the pan. Increase the heat to medium and bring
  to a boil. STEP 3: (OPTIONAL): Cover pan with a square of wax paper and
  lid, pushing down firmly. Steam for 2 to 3 minutes to dissolve the sugar
  crystals.  (Listen to make sure the pot doesn't boil over.  To double
  check, remove lid, leaving the wax paper in place.) STEP 4:  Wash down any
  crystals clinging to the sides with a brush dipped in hot water from the
  thermometer bath.  Introduce the prewarmed thermometer.  No need to stir.
  STEP 5:  Beat the egg whites until stiff but not dry.  If your mixer is a
  heavy duty one, you can wait until the bubbles in the syrup become very
  large and airy before beating the egg whites.  Otherwise, do it now when
  the thermometer registers 240F.  STEP 6:  Test the syrup when the
  thermometer registers 246F.  Continue testing until it reaches the
  firm-ball stage, 246 to 260F.  Syrup will be hard to scrape up in ice
  water.  It will have to be forced into a ball, but once formed, it should
  hold its shape but give under pressure.  Return the thermometer to the hot
  water bath to soak clean. STEP 7:  Dribble the syrup into the egg whites in
  a slow, steady stream, beating at slow speed.  Tilt the syrup pan to get
  the last drop but do not scrape the pan.  Once the syrup is completely
  incorporated, change to a flat whip if you have one. STEP 8:  Have patience
  and continue beating.  The amount of time you spend mixing depends on the
  power of your mixer.  If you have a heavy duty or commercial one, you can
  go to full speed and make the divinity in less than 5 minutes. With less
  powerful ones, it can take up to 20 minutes. The important thing is to beat
  at the highest speed of your mixer.  Also if it is a hot and humid day, it
  will take longer also. STEP 9:  Test the divinity. The first and most
  important test occurs when you lift the beaters. If the candy falls back in
  ribbons that immediately merge back into the batter, it isn't done.
  Eventually, a stationary column will form between the beaters and the bowl.
  Candy will lose its sheen/gloss and stop being sticky; a teaspoonful
  dropped onto wax paper will hold its shape, even a peak. If you machine is
  laboring and the candy is not quite there yet, you have two choices: Pour
  anyway and put into a frost free freezer to set up....or finish by hand.
  STEP 10:  Fold in the flavorings and nuts and/or other optional items using
  the mixer or if very thick, a wooden spoon. STEP 11: Drop or spread the
  divinity either on wax paper covered cookie sheets or the buttered pan.
  Dripping it by teaspoon is harder work for you but it ripens quicker and is
  ready to eat sooner.  A neat trick is to put the candy into a pastry bag
  and pipe onto the wax paper. If you spread it in the pan, you will have to
  wait up to 24 hours before it is ready. But you maybe one of those that
  think it is better when it is 24 hours old. Score and cut into squares.
  Store in an airtight container at room temperature or in a refrigerator.
  Makes 1 pound but looks like more. Recipe CANNOT be doubled; it can be
  frozen but not for extended periods of time.
 
 
      Title: Basic Honey Taffy
 Categories: Candies, Mormon
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Honey
 
  Cook honey to hard crack stage (285F) stirring constantly.  Pour onto
  buttered marble slab. As soon as outside edges cool enough to touch,fold to
  center and make long roll. Start stretching or pulling while hot. Pull
  until honey becomes light and porous and small strings develop. Cut into
  short pieces. Place in paper lined metal cans for two days to soften.
  
  Origin: Homemaking Booklet, Mormon Church, 1978. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
 
      Title: Beginners Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  8
 
      2 qt Popped popcorn
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Corn syrup
    1/3 c  Water
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven to 250.  Put popcorn in a large, 4 inch deep butered baking
  pan.  Keep warm in the oven. Combine sugar, cornsyrup, water, butter and
  salt in a large saucepan.  Stir over medium heat until sugar is dissolved.
  Cook until mixture reaches 250 on a candy thermometer, stirring frequently.
  Remove from heat.  Quickly stir in vanilla. Remove popcorn from oven. Pour
  syrup mixture over popcorn, stirring to mix well. Form into balls. Makes
  approximately 8 balls
  
  Variations: To make Spice Balls, subsitute 1 tbs of powdered spice or
  crushed herbs for vanilla To make butter balls, increase the butter to 1/3
  cup and increase the
 
 
      Title: Benne Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      2 c  Parched benne seed (sesame
           -seeds, I think)
 
  "Benne seeds cannot be procured in many places, but the candy made with it
  is so delicious and so characteristic of Charleston that the recipe is here
  included."
  
  Add the extracts to the sugar.  Melt the sugar in a saucepan, stirring
  constantly, as for peanut brittle.  When the sugar is melted, add the benne
  seed, stirring it in quickly.  Pour at once onto a marble slab to cool or
  pour into lightly buttered pans.  Mark in one-inch squares while still warm
  and break along the lines when cold.  --Mrs. Rhett
  
  From: 200 Years of Charleston Cooking 1930 Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
      Title: Bittersweet Chocolate Coated Truffles
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 12
 
           Basic Truffle Recipe:
      4 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
      2 tb Butter, cut up
      2 tb Heavy whipping cream
  1 1/2 tb Liqueur (to 2 Tbsp)
           Chocolate Coating for
           -Truffles:
      4 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
      2 ts Peanut, almond, or walnut
           -oil
 
  DIRECTIONS: For Truffles: In double boiler, melt broken chocolate, stirring
  constantly. (Or microwave 2 1/2 to 3 minutes on medium.) Remove chocolate
  from heat; blend in butter. Stir in cream, then liqueur. Combine with
  chopped nuts or candied fruit if desired. Chill 10-15 minutes, stirring
  frequently until thick enough to hold a shape. Drop by heaping teaspoon or
  #70 scoop onto foil lined baking pan. Shape round, if desires. Cover and
  freeze 20-30 minutes to set truffles firm for dipping with chocolate. For a
  variety of truffles, repeat the recipes using liqueurs such as Grand
  Marnier, Amaretto, Kahlua, Creme de Menthe.
  
  For Coating: Melt chocolate as directed in basic truffle recipe. Remove
  from heat and stir in oil. Cool chocolate to 85-90-F for dipping. Dip cold,
  firm truffle into melted chocolate, holding with a fork and spooning with
  several coats of chocolate. Place each onto foil lined baking pan. Decorate
  top with nuts, candied fruit, etc. Chill at least 2 hours to set chocolate.
  Roll in Ghirardelli Ground Chocolate, if desired. Place into tight
  container and store in cool, dry place to age for several days. Coats 12
  truffles.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
      Title: Black and White Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
      4 tb Cocoa
  1 1/2 tb White corn sirup
      1 tb Vanilla
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
  1 1/2 c  Cream
 
  Black part:
  
  Combine sugar, sirup, cocoa, and cream.  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238
  F).  Cool to room temperature.  Add butter and flavoring. Beat until
  creamy.  Pour into well-buttered pan.
  
  White part: 3 cups sugar 1 1/2 Tbsp white corn sirup 1 1/2 cups cream 1
  Tbsp vanilla 2 Tbsp butter or butter substitute
  
  Combine and cook as for black part.  When cool, beat until creamy, then
  pour over black part.  Nuts may be added if desired. The two portions will
  not run together but will cut out together. Cut in small squares. Mary
  Sanborn, Cherokee, IA.
 
      Title: Black Walnut Taffy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
      1 c  Molasses
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Boil molasses, sugar, salt, milk, water, and butter to hard ball stage (265
  ~ 270 F).  Add flavoring.  Spread nuts over the bottom of a well-buttered
  pan.  Pour taffy over nuts.  Cool. Pull until stiff and creamy. Cut in
  1-inch pieces. Isabel Tovill, Lancaster, OH.
 
 
      Title: Bonbons
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Knead fondant which has been allowed to stand for 24 hours or longer until
  smooth and pliable.  Color and flavor.  Mold into various shapes. Allow to
  stand in a cool place until firm.  Melt 2 cups fondant over lukewarm water
  (120 F).  Color and flavor as desired. Place bonbons on fork or on
  confectioner's dipper.  Dip into melted fondant one at a time. Remove from
  fondant.  Drain. Place on waxed paper. Form a swirl on the top. Nuts,
  fruit, and colored or white coconut may be used in the bonbon centers or on
  the surface.  Set in cool place until firm.  If fondant becomes too stiff
  during dipping process add a few drops hot water and stir until blended.
  The Household Searchlight
 
 
      Title: Bourbon Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 18
 
  1 1/2 c  Confectioner's sugar,
           Divided
      1 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/2 c  Pecans
      1 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      3 tb Bourbon
      2 tb Light corn syrup
 
  In bowl of food processor, combine 1 cup confectoner's sugar, graham
  cracker crumbs, pecans and cocoa. Process with quick on/off pulses. Add
  bourbon and corn syrup. Process, using quick on/off pulses, until mixture
  begins to hold together. Press and roll mixtue into 1 inch balls. Toss each
  ball in remaining 1/2 cup confectioners sugar to coat. Store in tightly
  covered container at room temperature. NOTE: If desired, pecans can be
  finely chopped and ingredients mixed together by hand. Makes about 18
  balls.
  
  Origin: Women's World, February 16, 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
 
      Title: Bran Candy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Bran
 
  Boil all ingredients except bran to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Cool to
  room temperature.  Add bran.  If desired, 1/2 cup raisins, dates, or nuts
  may be added.  Beat until stiff enough to knead. Turn onto board dusted
  with powdered sugar. Knead until smooth. Shape into a roll and slice.
  Margaret E. Johnson, Kent, WA.
 
 
      Title: Brazil Nut Bark
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Chopped Brazil nuts
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
 
  DIRECTIONS: Melt chocolate and butter over hot water. Remove from heat, and
  stir in Brazil nuts and raisins. Spread on cookie sheet lined with waxed
  paper. Chill until firm. Break into pieces. Store in refrigerator.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
 
      Title: Brown Sugar Fudge - Penuche
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  White Sugar, Granulated
      1 c  Light Brown Sugar, Firm Pack
    1/2 c  Heavy (Whipping) Cream
      3 tb Molasses *
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      4 tb Butter
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped Nuts, Optional
 
  * This is to taste.  The original recipe called for 4 T of Molasses.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  STEP 1:  PREPARE:  Prewarm the thermometer in hot water; use a 2-quart
  saucepan; butter the upper sides (inside) of the saucepan; measure all
  ingredients except the vanilla and optionals, and dump into the saucepan.
  Grease and if necessary, line a 5 X 10-inch pan.  Fill glass with ice cubes
  and water and the sink with 1/2 inch of cold water. STEP 2: Dissolve the
  sugar, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, over low heat until the
  butter melts, the gritty sounds cease, and the spoon glides smoothly over
  the bottom of the pan.  Increase the heat to medium and bring to a boil.
  STEP 3:  Boil, after washing down any crystals that may have formed, with a
  pastry brush dipped in hot water from the thermometer bath, using as little
  water as possible.  Introduce the prewarmed thermometer.  Reduce the heat
  while keeping the fudge at a boil.  Stir no more than necessary. STEP 4:
  Test the fudge mixture in the ice-cold water when the mixture thickens and
  bubbles become noisy.  Ball, formed in ice water, should hold its shape
  until the heat from your had begins to flatten it and should be al dente --
  slightly chewy -- between 230F and 240F.  Because of the molasses and
  brown sugar, it can ball at a lower temperature than some other fudges.
  STEP 5:  Shock by placing the saucepan in the cold water in the sink. STEP
  6:  Seed by adding, without stirring, the vanilla.  Then allow to cool.
  STEP 7:  Stir when luke warm and "skin" forms on the top (110F). Return
  the thermometer to its hot water bath to soak clean. Stir the fudge
  thoroughly but not vigorously by hand, with an electric mixer, or with a
  food processor.  Pause frequently to allow the fudge to react. STEP 8:
  Watch for the fudge to thicken, lose its sheen, and become lighter in color
  or streaked with lighter shade, give off some heat, suddenly stiffen. If
  mixing by had, the fudge will "snap" with each stroke; by mixer, mixer
  waves will become very distinct, by food processor, fudge will flow
  sluggishly back to the center when the processor is stopped. STEP 9: Add
  the optionals (1/2 Cup Chopped Nuts (walnuts, pecans, or hazelnuts,
  filberts)) before the fudge totally candies. STEP 10: Pour, score, and
  store when cool in an airtight container in the refrigerator or at room
  temperature. YIELD: 1 pound of fudge. Recipe is easily doubled and can be
  frozen. VARIATIONS: HONEY BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step 1, eleminate the
  unsweetened chocolate and replace the molasses with 1/4 cup of honey. The
  honey causes the fudge to ball at a higher temperature. CHOCOLATE HONEY
  BROWN SUGAR FUDGE:  In Step 1, replace the heavy cream with light cream or
  evaporated milk and replace the molasses with 1/4 cup of honey. ORANGE
  BROWN SUGAR FUDGE:  In Step 1, eleminate molasses, chocolate but add 1 Tbl
  corn syrup.  In Step 6, add 1 T grated orange zest, plus if you can get it,
  1 tsp of pure orange extract. PEANUT BUTTER BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step 1,
  eliminate the molasses and chocolate, replace the heavy cream with 1/4 cup
  of milk and 1/4 cup of creamy peanut butter. To intensify the peanut butter
  flavor, add 1/3 of a cup of salted peanuts in Step 9. PRALINE BROWN SUGAR
  FUDGE:  In Step 1, eliminating the molasses is optional -- you'ss get a
  more Southern praline with it, a milder one without it--or compromise and
  use only 1 T.  Eliminate the chocolate. In Step 3, when the mixture begins
  to thicken, add 1-1/2 cups of pecan halves slowly so as not to break the
  boil or cool the mixture too quickly.
 
 
      Title: Brown Sugar Slices
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Lard
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      1 ts Vanilla
      4 c  Flour
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  SOURCE: The Budget  10/30/91
  
  Cream lard and sugar, add vanilla and eggs and mix well. Sift together
  flour, soda and cream of tartar and add to first mixture. Add nuts then
  form dough into two rolls. Place in plastic wrap and chill several hours.
  Cut in 1/2 inch slices and bake in 350 degree oven 10 - 12 minutes.
  
  Sylvia (Cookie Lady) Palm Bay, Fl.
 
 
      Title: Brown Sugar Taffy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Vinegar and water together
           Nuts; chopped
 
  Boil as for other taffy until it spins a thread. Add nuts and pour on
  plate. Pull when ready. Common walnuts are especially good in this recipes.
  Never a failure.
  
  Note: Taffy should be cooked to hard ball stage. Pulling can begin when it
  cools enough to handle. Butter hands!
  
  Source: Mrs. Grace Chaille, Marathon Grange, Clermont County, OH
 
 
      Title: Brown Sugar Squares
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
  2 1/2 c  Brown sugar
  1 3/4 c  Evaporated milk
      2 tb Corn sirup
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 c  Coconut
      1 c  Chopped almonds
           Few grains salt
 
  Boil sugar, sirup, and milk to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Remove from
  fire.  Add butter.  Cool to room temperature.  Beat until thick and creamy.
  Add coconut, nuts, salt, and flavoring. Pour into well-buttered, shallow
  pan.  Cut in squares. Mrs. M. Carello, Cato, WI.
 
 
      Title: Buckeyes
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Powdered Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Creamy Peanut Butter
    1/2 c  Unsalted Butter, Room Temp
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 lb Semisweet Chocolate,
           - Coarsely Chopped
 
  Mix first 4 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Cover and refrigerate for
  at least 4 hours or overnight.
  
  Form  peanut  butter  mixture  into  3/4-inch  diameter  balls. Arrange on
  baking sheets.  FREEZE 1 hour.
  
  Line additional baking sheets with waxed paper.  Melt chocolate in top of
  double boiler over barely simmering water,  stirring until smooth. Remove
  from over water.  Remove 1/4  of  peanut butter balls from freezer. Pierce
  one with toothpick and  dip into chocolate, coating 3/4 of ball. Let excess
  chocolate drip back into pan. Arrange chocolate side down on prepared
  sheets. Repeat with remaining peanut butter balls. Refrigerate until
  chocolate is firm. Serve Buckeyes well chilled.  Makes  approx.
  
  * I use a bag of Nestle choc. chips, melted.
 
 
      Title: Buckeyes
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  1
 
      3    Boxes of powdered sugar
      1 lb Peanut butter
      1 lb Margarine
      1 c  Nuts (opt.)
      1    Block semi-sweet chocolate
    1/3    Block parafinn
           Vanilla
 
  After melting butter, peanut butter, flavoring, add nuts and mix well. Add
  posederd sugar. Mix well using large spoon.  Do not attempt to use an
  electric mixer.  Mixture will be very thick. Roll in balls the size of
  chestnuts.  Melt wax and chocolate in double boiler. Using a toothpick, dip
  each ball in chocolate and place on wax paper. Balls will dip better if
  chilled before dipping in chocolate. Bumgarner Family Recipes Submitted by
  Donna Bumgarner Hurt
  
  posted by Bud Cloyd
 
 
      Title: Buckeyes
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
      3 tb Butter
      1 lb Chocolate, melted
 
  Combine powdered sugar, peanut butter and butter.  Roll into 1-inch balls
  and chill until firm.  Dip into melted chocolate and place on wax paper
  until hard.
 
 
      Title: Butter Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Butter (2 1/2 sticks)
  1 1/2 c  Chopped blanched almonds,
           -divided
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts,
           -divided
      1 ts Rum extract
      4 oz Milk chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
 
  Butter a 15x10" jelly roll pan; set aside.  Combine sugar, salt, water and
  butter in a heavy 3-quart saucepan.  Heat to boiling on medium-high heat.
  Add 3/4 cup almonds and cook, stirring constantly, to hard crack stage
  (300-310 degrees).  Remove from heat.  Stir in remaining 3/4 cup almonds,
  1/2 cup walnuts, and rum extract, mixing only enough to combine. Very
  quickly, pour into prepared pan.  Spread evenly.  Place chocolate on warm
  toffee until melted.  Spread chocolate evenly over toffee. Sprinkle with
  remaining 1/2 cup walnuts.  Cool; break into pieces.
  
  Makes:  50 pieces From: Jackie Olden Newsletter Posted by: Debbie Carlson -
  Cooking Echo
 
 
      Title: Butter-Scotch
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Few grains salt
 
  Combine all ingredients except flavoring.  Cover until mixture begins to
  boil.  Boil without stirring to soft crack stage (275 - 280 F). Add
  flavoring.  Do not stir.  Pour quickly into well-buttered pan. The candy
  should be in a thin sheet.  Cool slightly and mark in squares. The
  Household Searchlight
 
 
      Title: Buttered Brazil Nuts
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
    1/2    To 3/4 cup whole Brazil nuts
    1/3 c  Water
      1 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Light corn syrup
  1 1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 c  Butter, chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 225 F (110 C). On an oiled cookie sheet spread nuts in a
  single layer. Warm in the oven for 5-10 minutes while preparing the toffee
  mixture.
  
  In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine water and sugar. Cook over low heat
  until sugar is dissolved. Bring liquid to boil, add syrup, cream of tartar
  and butter, simmer until butter has melted. Bring to a boil and boil to
  soft crack stage, 270 F (140 C) on candy thermometer.
  
  Remove saucepan from heat. Remove nuts from oven. With a spoon, drizzle a
  little toffee over each nut. Leave to cool and harden. If toffee is setting
  too quickly in the pan, place it in a bowl of hot water. Store in a cool,
  dark place.
  
  Makes about 1/2 lb.
  
  Source: Gifts From The Pantry By Annette Grimsdale
 
 
      Title: Buttered Honey Nuts
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      6 oz Shelled, unsalted nuts
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Honey
 
  DIRECTIONS: Spread nuts on a cookie sheet. Bake at 300-F for 15 minutes.
  Mix butter and honey; pour over nuts. Stir until nuts are completely coated
  with the mixture. Store in airtight container.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
 
      Title: Butterfingers Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Water
           Melted chocolate
 
  Cook corn syrup, sugar, & water to 310 degrees, remove from heat, stir in
  warmed peanut butter until completely blended. Pour onto greased cookie
  sheet and score into pieces. When cool and hard, dip into melted chocolate.
  
  Posted by Gina Smith DVWH18B
 
 
      Title: Buttermilk Pecan Pralines
 Categories: Candies, Entertain
   Servings: 40
 
      3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1    Pinch Of Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk
    3/4 c  White Corn Syrup
      2 tb Butter
      2 c  Pecan Halves
 
  In a large saucepan, (5 or 6 Quart size) combine sugar, baking soda, salt,
  buttermilk and corn syrup.  Bring to a boil, stirring constantly.  Reduce
  heat to medium-low, continue cooking until mixture becomes caramel-colored
  and reaches soft ball stage (238F).  Remove from heat, add butter and
  pecan halves.  Beat until thick enough to drop from a spoon onto waxed
  paper.  If mixture becomes too hard, return to heat and add small amount of
  water.  Stir until smooth.  Yield: 44 to 48 Pralines. *** Variation ***
  Reduce sugar to 2 cups.  Omit corn syrup.  Increase butter to 3/4 cup, add
  1 teaspoon vanilla.  Include butter in cooking stage. Add vanilla with
  pecans.  Source:  Cook 'EM Horns cookbook, The Ex-students Association,
  Univ. of Texas, Austin.
 
 
      Title: Butterscotch
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 60
 
    1/2 c  Water
      3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
     30 g  Butter
 
  Place water in saucepan, bring to the boil. Remove from heat, stir in sugar
  until dissolved. Return to heat, cover, bring to the boil. Mix cream of
  tartar with a little water, add to mixture, boil, without stirring, until
  mixture reaches 155 degrees C when tested with a sweets thermometer or
  until mixture reaches hard crack stage. Remove from heat, stir in butter.
  Pour into greased 23 cm square cake pan. Mark butterscotch into squares
  when almost set. Break into squares when cold, wrap in cellophane; store in
  a cool, dry place.
  
  Makes about 60.
 
 
      Title: Butterscotch Candy
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter
      4 tb Water
      1 tb Vinegar
 
  Combine all the ingredients and cook until a little tried in cold water
  forms a brittle or hard ball.  Pour into a buttered pan and when cool, cut
  in squares. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes,
  Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
 
      Title: Butterscotch Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sour Cream
      1 c  White Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Nuts
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      2 tb White Syrup
 
  Melt butter. Add brown sugar and heat to boiling. Add white sugar, sour
  cream and salt. cook to 236 degrees. Cool. Add vanilla and nuts then beat
  until thick. Pour into buttered pan.
  
  From the Kronborg Kitchen Kapers Cookbook 1975 - Contributed by Pauline
  Nissen
 
      Title: Butterscotch Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Corn syrup; light
      1 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Butter
    1/4 ts Vanilla
 
  Put sugar, corn syrup, water and salt in saucepan. Stir over low heat until
  sugar is dissolved. Increase heat and cook until  thermometer registers 250
  F., firm ball stage. Add butter, cook with ocassional stirring until
  thermometer registers 300 F., brittle stage. Remove from stove, add
  vanilla, pout into buttered shallow pan, making a layer 1/4" deep. While
  warm, crease into squares wiht blunt knife. When cold, break into pieces.
  
  Source: Shalersville Grange, Portage County, OH
 
 
      Title: Cactus Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Select prickly pear cactus (or small barrel cactus if you own this type of
  cactus, since it's illegal to remove it from the desert). Remove spines and
  outside layer with large knife. Cut pulp across in slices one-inch thick.
  Soak overnight in cold water. Remove from water, cut in one0inch cubes and
  cook in boiling water til tender. Drain. Cook slowly in the following syrup
  until nearly all the syrup is absorbed. Do not scorch!
  
  SYRUP for 2 QUARTS of CACTUS CUBES
  
  Heat all ingredients until sugar is dissolved. Then add cactus. Remover
  cactus from syrup, drain and roll in granulated or powdered sugar. For
  colored cactus candy, any vegetable food coloring may be added to the
  syrup.
 
      Title: Candied Apples
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Or 5 apples
      1 c  Hot water
 
  Heat water and sugar to boiling.  Flavor as desired.  Pare and quarter each
  apple.  Cut each quarter in thirds.  Cook apples, a few pieces at a time,
  until clear and transparent.  Drain.  Place on waxed paper. Let dry 24
  hours.  Roll in granulated sugar. Mrs. H. Martin, Tieton, WA.
 
 
      Title: Candied Citrus Peel
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Citrus peel, cut into strips
           -from:
      4 md To 5 medium oranges
      6 md Lemons
      2 md To large grapefruit
     12 c  Cold water
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Honey
  1 3/4 c  Boiling water
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Wash fruit. Score peel into quarters. Remove sections of peel with fingers;
  cut into uniform strips about 3/8 in. wide. Boil peel with 6 cups cold
  water, uncovered, for 10 minutes. Drain and rinse. Repeat process with 6
  cups fresh water.
  
  In a large saucepan, combine 1 1/2 cups sugar, honey and boiling water.
  Bring to a boil, and boil about one minute. Add cooked, drained peel and
  briskly simmer until almost all of the syrup has been absorbed, about 30 to
  40 minutes. Stir frequently to avoid sticking.
  
  Transfer peel to collander. Drain well, about 10 minutes. In large bowl,
  toss drained peel with remianing 1 cup sugar to coat well. Spread pieces
  out on waxed paper to dry. Store in tightly covered container.
 
 
      Title: Candied Cranberries
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Cranberries
 
  Cook 1/2 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan over low
  heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Transfer to top of double boiler. Add
  cranberries. Cover berry mixture and place over simmering water. Cook 45
  minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from over water. Let cranberry
  mixture stand at room temperature overnight.
  
  Place remaining 1/2 cup sugar on plate. Drain cranberries well. Add t sugar
  and turn to coat. Let dry at least 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 3 days
  ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
  
  Makes about 1/2 cup
 
 
      Title: Candied Fruit
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Fruit
      1 c  Water
 
  Use canned, preserved, or freshly cooked fruit.  Drain thoroughly. Combine
  sugar and water.  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Add fruit and
  simmer until clear.  Allow to stand in sirup overnight. Drain thoroughly.
  Roll in granulated sugar. Place on cake rack. Dry in very slow oven (250 F)
  until surface is firm. Peaches, apples, prunes, figs, quinces, citron,
  plums, cherries, and apricots may be used.  Dried fruits as well as fresh
  fruits may be prepared and candied. The Household Searchlight
 
 
      Title: Candied Fruit Peel
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Wash oranges, lemons, or grapefruit.  Remove peel in 2 sections. Cut each
  section into 1/4-inch strips.  Cover with cold water. Heat to boiling. Boil
  10 minutes.  Drain.  Repeat 3 times. Drain. Cover with boiling water and
  simmer until tender.  Drain. Divide peel into 3 portions. Prepare a heavy
  sirup, using 2 cups sugar and 1 cup water. Color 1 portion of sirup red, 1
  portion green, and leave 1 portion clear. Add 1/3 of peel to each portion
  of sirup.  There should be sufficient sirup to cover each portion of peel.
  Cook slowly until tender.  Allow to stand in sirup overnight. Drain
  thoroughly.  Roll in granulated sugar. Place on cake rack. Dry in very slow
  oven (250 F) until surface is firm. The Household Searchlight
 
      Title: Candied Grapefruit
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      3    Plump, pink grapefruit,
           - preferably organic
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Corn syrup
           Superfine sugar; for coating
      5 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Butter
 
  SCORE GRAPEFRUIT INTO QUARTERS and carefully pull off peels or juice fruits
  and cut halves again in half. Place peels in large pan, cover them with
  cold water and bring to boil. Simmer 25 minutes. Remove peels and let them
  cool until they are easy to handle. Hold peels firmly against counter and
  gently scrape away most of white pith just below skin. Cut cleaned peels
  into strips with knife or scissors as narrow or wide as you like. In
  2-quart saucepan, mix together sugar, water and corn syrup. Bring to boil.
  When syrup is clear, add peels, lower heat and cook slowly until peels are
  translucent, about 1 hour. Set cake rack over baking sheet. Remove peels a
  few at a time and spread them out on rack to drain about 15 minutes. While
  they are draining, thickly cover large plate with super- fine sugar. Set
  several pieces at a time in sugar and turn them to coat them. When evenly
  coated, set them aside on another plate or piece of parchment paper thinly
  coated with sugar. This process will need to be done in several batches. If
  sugar become lumpy with beads of syrup, pass it through a strainer, then
  continue using it. Set aside sugared peels about 1 hour or until they are
  dried. Carefully package them in tin or plastic container and store either
  in cupboard or refrigerator. To dip peels in chocolate, melt semisweet
  chocolate over simmering water along with butter. Stir well to ensure that
  mixture is smooth before removing from heat. Dip each rind into chocolate,
  coating most of it but leaving a little "handle" to grasp. Or, completely
  immerse each rind in chocolate, then remove with 2 forks or pair of
  chopsticks. Set slices on parchment paper or cake rack and place in cool
  place to harden. Once chocolate has set, pieces can be stored in
  refrigerator. Chocolate will discolor when it cools but will become dark
  and glossy again once brought to room temperature.
  
  Makes 3 Cups
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
 
      Title: Candied Grapefruit Peel
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 md Grapefruit (or 3), peels of
           Water
      3 c  Sugar
           Food coloring
 
  DIRECTIONS: Cover peel with cold water. Bring to boil and cook until
  tender, pouring off water and adding fresh cold water several times. Drain.
  With spoon, remove white inner portion of peel. With knife or tiny star
  cookie cutter, cut a few stars from peel, if desired. With scissors or
  sharp knife, cut rest of peel in thin strips. Make syrup by boiling 2 cups
  sugar with 1 cup water. Add a little red or green food coloring. (A drop or
  two of yellow coloring with red improves the finished color.) Add peel;
  cook over low heat until peel has a clear, candied appearance. Remove peel,
  2 or 3 pieces at a time, allowing excess syrup to drain back into saucepan.
  Roll strips separately into remaining 1 cup sugar until well coated. Place
  on rack to cool. Store in tightly covered container in cool, dry place.
  Keeps at least a month.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
      Title: Candied Peels
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      6    Navel oranges
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Clear corn syrup
  1 1/2 c  Water
      3 oz Orange gelatin
 
  Cut oranges in half lengthwise & remove fruit.  Cut peels into strips. Cook
  peels in 8 C. boiling water for 15 min.  Drain & repeat.  In same pot, cook
  sugar, syrup, & 1-1/2 C. water over high heat until sugar is dissolved. Add
  gelatin & peels & simmer for 20 min.  Remove from heat. On a sheet of waxed
  paper or microwave paper, sprinkle 1 C. granulated sugar. Lightly roll the
  peels in the sugar, a few at a time, until the peel is evenly coated. Add
  sugar as needed as supply is used.  Place in one layer to dry overnight.
  Store in airtight containers.  Will keep indefinately, if kept dry.
  
  Lemon or Lime peels may be used with the corresponding gelatin, but I've
  never tried it.
  
  For slightly less sweet peels, delete the corn syrup & increase sugar to 3
  cups.
  
  *Kieran*
 
 
      Title: Candied Spiced Walnuts
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  2
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Cloves
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Shelled walnut halves
 
  Boil all ingredients except the walnuts to 236 degrees on a candy
  thermometer (soft ball stage). Remove from heat and add the walnuts. Stir
  until creamy. Turn out on waxed paper. Using 2 forks, separate walnuts. Let
  dry. Then store them in an airtight container Makes about 2 cups.
 
 
      Title: Candied Watermelon
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Drain watermelon honey until all the tiny particles of melon are
  comparatively free from sirup.  Prepare a heavy sirup made of 2 parts sugar
  and 1 part water.  Tint a delicate green with food coloring. Flavor with
  mint.  Add the drained particles.  Simmer until nicely colored. Drain. Roll
  in granulated sugar.  Dry in very slow oven (300 F). A portion of the sirup
  may be colored pink and flavored with rose or raspberry before the melon is
  added.  If the natural color is desired, roll the drained particles in
  sugar, and dry.  Any variety of flavors and colors may be obtained. The
  Household Searchlight
 
 
      Title: Candy Making Information
 Categories: Candies, Information
   Servings:  1
 
           No ingredients; see text
 
                          Stages of Syrup Cooking Slightly more cooking is
  required on damp or rainy days than on a dry , clear day. Allowance is made
  for this in the following table. The higher temperature should be used on a
  damp day while the lower is right for clear weather. Soft ball, for
  fondant, fudge, panocha_______________ 234F. to 238F. Firm ball, for
  caramels______________________________ 246F. to 248F. Hard ball, for
  taffy_________________________________ 265F. to 270F. Crack stage, for
  butterscotch________________________ 290F. to 300F. Hard crack, for
  brittles, sticks, lollypops__________ 300F. to 310F. Hard crack stage, for
  clear hard candies_____________       to 310F.
                            Cold Water Test
      Pour about 1/2 teaspoon os the hot candy into a cup nearly full of very
  cold water. Shape the syrup with the fingers of one hand. Soft ball: The
  syrup can be formed into a soft ball which flatens on removal from the
  water. Firm ball: The syrup can be formed into a ball which offers some
  resistance to the fingers. Hard ball: The ball which is formed is
  distinctly chewy. Crack: The mixture sounds britle when struck against the
  side of the cup; it can be broken by crushing between the fingers. Hard
  crack: The brittle mixture will not stick to the teeth.
      If a thermometer is used, it should be tested in boiling water. It
  should register 212 F. If 214 F., cook candy 2 degrees higher, if 210 F.,
  cook candy 2 degrees lower. Make your adjustments accordingly.
 
 
      Title: Candy Melt Roses
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     14 oz Candy Melts - (1 package)
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
 
  Melt candy melts according to package directions.  Add heated light corn
  syrup and stir until thoroughly mixed.  Let set at room temperature in an
  airtight plastic bag for at least 24 hours or up to one week. Candy becomes
  easier to work with as it sets.  When ready to use, knead a small amount
  until it reaches a workable consistency.
  
  MODELING A ROSE: Start with the base and mold a cone that's approximately
  1-1/2 inch high from a 3/4-inch diameter ball of modeling candy. Next, make
  petals.  Flatten 3/8-inch ball of modeling candy into a circle that's about
  1/4-inch thick on one side and about the diameter of a dime. Make several
  petals this size. Wrap first petal around the point of the cone to form a
  bud.  Now press three more petals around the base of the bud. Gently pinch
  edges of petals.  Make five more petals using slightly larger balls of
  modeling candy.  Flatten, then thin edge with finger and cup petals. Press
  petals under first row of petals. Continue adding petals, placing them in
  between and slightly lower than previous row. For a fuller flower, continue
  adding petals in this manner.
  
  TO MAKE CANDY LEAVES: On the back of clean, thoroughly dried, grape or rose
  leaves, paint on melted Candy Melts with a soft pastry or decorator's
  brush. Pull out pointed or curved edges to resemble certain kinds of
  leaves. Let coating set and when completely dry, carefully peel off candy.
  
  Recipe from the 1989 Wilton Yearbook.
 
 
      Title: Candy- Peanut Butter, Easter Eggs
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings: 12
 
           Pat Stockett
      2 lb Margarine
      4 lb Peanut butter
      4 lb Confectioners' sugar

    1/4 lb Butter
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Peanut butter or coconut
      4 c  Confectioner's sugar

      1 c  Margarine
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 lb Powdered sugar
  2 1/4 c  Peanut butter, chunky

      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      1 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      2 c  Rice Krispies
      2 tb Oil
    1/4 ts Vanilla

      1 lb Margarine
      2 c  Peanut butter
  2 1/2 lb To 3 pounds confectioners'
           -sugar
      3 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/4 lb Paraffin wax
 
  Mix thoroughly.  Mold in egg shapes and chill in freezer.  Dip in 2 pounds
  of dipping chocolate. (Take only a few eggs from freezer to dip so the
  peanut butter does not soften too much.)
  
  Easter Eggs Soften and mix together butter and cream cheese. Add: salt,
  vanilla, peanut butter or coconut and confectioners' sugar Place in
  refrigerator to chill.  Form into egg or ball shape. Dip in melted
  chocolate coating.
  
  Peanut Butter Eggs Cream margarine and cream cheese; add remaining
  ingredients and mix thoroughly. Roll into small eggs or balls. Place on
  cookie sheet on waxed paper and freeze about 2 hours. For chocolate, use
  chocolate chips and a small bar of parafin or chocolate coating melted on
  top of double boiler. After 2 hours remove peanut butter eggs from freezer
  and dip in melted chocolate. Place on wax paper to cool. Makes 12 dozen
  eggs.
  
  Rice Krispie Eggs Mix together and mold into eggs. Place on cookie sheet
  and freeze about 2 hours. Dip in chocolate coating to which a small amount
  of oil or butter may be added. Cool on waxed paper.
  
  Peanut Butter Balls or Eggs Cream margarine and peanut butter together. Add
  sugar and vanilla. Mix together and form desired shape. Place on cookie
  sheets lined with wax paper and place in the refrigerator for about 10
  minutes. Melt chocolate and paraffin wax over low heat. (Use less wax, if
  preferred).  Put toothpick into balls and dip into chocolate. Put back on
  waxed paper and remove toothpick.  You can also use a spoon to dip them.
 
      Title: Candy-Stick Logs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 qt Popped popcorn
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
    2/3 ts Vinegar
    1/3 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      8    (4 inch long) candy sticks
 
  Preheat oven to 250. Place popcorn in a large 4 inch deep butttred baking
  pan.  keep warm in oven.  Combine sugar, water, cornsyrup, vinegar, and
  salt in a large saucepan. COok until mixture reaches 250 on a candy
  thermometer.  Remove from heat and quickly stir in vanilla. Remove popcorn
  from oven.  Pour syrup mixture over popcorn, stirring to mix well. Shape 1
  cup of popcorn around each candy stick to form a
 
 
      Title: Caramel Apples
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      6 md Apples
  1 1/4 c  Margerine
  2 3/4 c  Dark brown sugar, firmly
           -packed
      1 c  White corn syrup
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
           -(like Eagle brand)
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  In heavy saucepan or skillet, melt margarine and sugar.  Add corn syrup and
  condensed milk.  Cook until mixture forms a firm ball in cold water.
  
  Remove from heat, beat.  Add vanilla.  Place sticks in apples and dip in
  mixture.  Set apples on waxed paper lined surface.
  
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
 
 
      Title: Caramel Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  White karo
      2 c  Cream
           Salt; pinch
 
  Cook 1 cup cream with sugar and Karo, until soft ball stage. Add last cup
  of cream very slowly, not to stop boiling. Cook to hard ball stage. Pour on
  buttered plate and cut in squares. Wrap in oil paper.
  
  Source: Mrs. A. R. Wolf, Bethel Grange, Clermont County, OH
 
 
      Title: Caramel Crisp
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 c  Baking molasses
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Butter
      3 ts Vinegar
      3 tb Water
    1/2 ts Baking soda
 
  Cook until it forms hard ball in water. Add soda and pour over about 2
  gallons of popcorn.
  
  Source: Mrs. Albert Seckel, United Grange, Marion County, OH
 
 
      Title: Caramel Turtles
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Pecan halves
     36    Caramels
    1/2 c  Sweet chocolate, melted
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees.  Grease a cookie sheet.  Arrange pecans, flat
  side down, in clusters of four.  Place one caramel on each cluster of
  pecans. Heat until caramels soften, about 4-8 minutes.  remove from oven.
  Flatten caramel with buttered spatula.  Cool slightly.  remove from pan to
  wax paper. Swirl chocolate on top.
  
  Shared by Ellen Cleary
 
 
      Title: Caramels Au Chocolat (Chocolate Caramels)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Milk
     13 oz Powdered sugar
           Eggsize piece of glucose
  3 1/4 oz Chocolate in tablets
  1 1/2 oz Butter
    1/2    Vanilla bean
 
  Put milk, sugar, vanilla bean and glucose into a stewpan. Put the chocolate
  into a round-bottomed copper pan and melt it slowly on the stove.
  Meanwhile, heat the mixture in the stewpan, not letting it boil, since you
  merely want to melt the sugar and glucose. When completely melted, pour
  this mixture, bit by bit, into the chocolate, while stirring. When
  thoroughly mixed, cook at moderate heat, constantly stirring. Cook to the
  'ball' stage. (To test the stage of cooking by finger, dip the thumb and
  index finger into cold water, then into the mixture, bringing the 2 fingers
  together and dipping them again into water. This should be done quickly to
  avoid burning. The mixture forms a ball that can be rolled with the tip of
  the fingers.) Remove from the fire, add the butter, mix well, and pour onto
  an oiled marble slab in an oiled, iron framework. Let cool and cut.
  
  Source   : The Art of French Cooking Posted by: Rina de Jong
 
      Title: Caramels Mous Au Chocolat (Soft Chocolate Caramels)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 lb Sugar
      9 oz Fresh heavy cream
      2 oz Cocoa powder
  1 1/4 oz Honey
 
  Cook together in a copper pan (or a pan not lined with tin) until the
  mixture reaches th 'ball'stage. (To test the stage of the cooking by
  finger, dip the thumb and index finger into cold water, then into the
  mixture, bringing the 2 fingers together and dipping them again into water.
  This should be done quickly to avoid burning. The mixture forms a small
  ball that can be rolled with the tip of the fingers) Pour this cooked sugar
  onto an oiled marble slab, keeping it at an even thickness of 2/3 in.,
  using 4 oiled rulers to make a framework. Let cool and cut.
  
  Source   : The Art of French Cooking Posted by: Rina de Jong
 
      Title: Caramels
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Cream
  1 3/4 c  Corn sirup
      1 c  Butter or butter substitute
      1 c  Chopped nuts
           Few grains salt
 
  Boil all together except the nuts and 1 cup cream.  Boil 30 minutes. Add
  the second cup of cream and boil to a firm ball stage (248 F). Add nuts and
  pour without stirring into well-buttered pan. When cold cut in squares.
  Mildred Rahm, Ormsby, MN.
 
 
      Title: Caramels
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  White Syrup
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 c  Heavy Cream
 
  Cook slowly to 247 degrees, 1 1/2 to 2 hours cooking time. Pour into 8 x 8
  inch heavily buttered pan. Cool, cut, and wrap each piece in wax paper.
  
  From the Kronborg Kitchen Kapers Cookbook 1975 Contributed by - Sena
  Hermansen
 
      Title: Caramels
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  White sugar
  1 3/4 c  White karo
    1/2 lb Butter
        ds Salt
 
  Boil until it forms a firm ball in cold water.  Stir constantly while it is
  cooking.  Add one tall can evaporated milk and continue cooking until very
  thick.  Walnuts may be added.  Pour into 8x8 inch glass baking dish.
  
  When cool, cut into squares and wrap in waxed paper.
  
  SOURCE: Cooking in Wyoming Cookbook
 
 
      Title: Caramels
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 40
 
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Dark Karo corn syrup
     14 oz Can sweetened condensed milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Bring sugar, butter, and corn syrup to a boil in saucepan, stirring. Then
  boil 4 minutes without stirring.  Remove pan from heat and add sweetened
  condensed milk.  Mix well.  Return pan to heat and cook at medium-low boil
  30 minutes, or until mixture reaches 238 degrees on candy thermometer,
  stirring constantly. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. Pour into
  buttered 9-inch square pan.
  
  Cool in pan 2 hours.  remove from pan and cut with very sharp serrated
  knife into 1-inch pieces.  Wrap each piece in wax paper.  Makes about 40
  caramels.
 
 
      Title: Caramels
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 40
 
    125 g  Butter
      2 tb Golden syrup
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    400 g  Can sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      1 ts Vanilla essence
 
  Place all ingredients except essence, in saucepan, stir over low heat until
  mixture is a pale brown colour (a little mixture dropped into cold water
  should form a firm but pliable ball). Remove from heat, stir in essence,
  drop teaspoonfuls of mixture onto greased oven trays; cool. Wrap caramels
  in cellophane when cold. Store in a cool, dry place.
  
  Makes about 40.
 
 
      Title: Carmael Corn
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      7 qt Popped popcorn
      2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Butter
           Vanilla
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
 
  Boil sugar, butter and corn syrup 4 minutes. Remove from stove and add
  salt, soda and vanilla. (This will foam when soda is added). Pour over
  popped popcorn, stir carefully. Put into a large pan into oven at 250F. for
  1 hour. Carefully stir every 10 minutes. If pan is big enough, shake
  popcorn--it doesn't crumble as much.
  
  From the book "Treasured Mennonite Recipes" by the Mennonite Community
  Relief Sales Volume 1
  
  AR/93
 
      Title: Carmels
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  White Syrup
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 c  Heavy Cream
 
  Cook slowly to 247 degrees, 1 1/2 to 2 hours cooking time. Pour into 8 x 8
  inch heavily buttered pan. Cool, cut, and wrap each piece in wax paper.
  
  From the Kronborg Kitchen Kapers Cookbook 1975 Contributed by - Sena
  Hermansen
 
 
      Title: Carrot Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 c  Grated carrots
    1/2 ts Lemon flavoring
  3 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Cook carrots, sugar, milk, and water, to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).
  Remove from fire, add flavoring, and cool to room temperature. Beat until
  creamy.  Pour into buttered pan, pat down to 1 inch depth, and when firm
  cut in squares.  The grain is likely to be a little coarse due to the
  grated carrots. Mrs. L.G. Humichl, Perry, IA.
 
      Title: Cathedral Windows
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 10
 
      2 tb Margarine
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      3 c  Colored marshmallows
 
    Melt the margarine and chocolate chips in a saucepan over the lowest heat
  setting.  Remove from heat when melted.
  
  Add the egg and powdered sugar.  Mix well.
  
  Add marshmallows.  Stir until coated.
  
  Turn out onto wax paper and form a roll.  When hardened, slices into 30
  pieces approx. 1/2 inch in size.
  
  Freezes well.
  
  Enjoy! - Jeff Duke
 
      Title: Champagne Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 24
 
           Peter Kump

      8 oz Cream
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Cognac

      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      1 lb Cocoa
 
  It is important to use an excellent quality chocolate when making truffles
  since it is the primary ingredient. Valhrona is my first choice and
  Callebaut is my second.
  
  BRING THE CREAM TO A BOIL and pour it over the cut chocolate. Allow to
  stand 1-to-2 minutes and stir smooth. Beat in the softened butter and cool
  to set. Beat with an electric mixer (using a paddle attachment if
  available) on medium speed until light. Beat in Cognac. Pipe out small
  truffles on parchment or waxed paper with a pastry bag fitted with a
  1/2-inch plain tube. Refrigerate to set. Melt the chocolate. Sift the cocoa
  into a deep pan. Dip the truffles in the melted chocolate and then deposit
  them in the cocoa, shaking the pan to cover them. After the covering sets,
  shake the truffles in a strainer to remove the excess cocoa.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
      Title: Cheese Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Cheese, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  3
 
      1 c  (2 sticks) butter, softened
      8 oz Pasteurized process cheese,
           -cubed
  1 1/2 lb Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/2 c  Non-fat dry milk
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Coarsely chopped nuts
 
  In a large saucepan over medium heat melt butter and cheese, stirring
  frequently. Remove from heat.  Sift together sugar and cocoa; add to
  cheese, mixing well.  Stir in non-fat dry milk, vanilla and nuts. Turn into
  a 9x9x2-inch pan. Chill until firm. Makes 3 pounds.
  
  From Best Recipes Magazine, Sept/Oct 1991
 
      Title: Cherry Walnut Divinity
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2    Egg whites
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Chopped candied cherries
      3 c  Light brown sugar
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Corn sirup
 
  Boil sugar, sirup, salt, and water to firm ball stage (248 F). Pour slowly,
  beating constantly, over stiffly beaten egg whites. Beat until candy begins
  to stiffen.  Add candied cherries, flavoring, and nuts. Drop by
  teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper, or pour into well-buttered pans. When cold
  cut in squares. Lou S. Hokulin, Morris, MN.
 
      Title: Chinese Coconut Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Grated coconut ( Substitute
           -canned)
      2 c  Brown sugar
           Walnut halves
 
  1) Melt sugar in heavy pan over a slow fire.
  
  2) Add coconut and cook until sugar begins to crystallize.
  
  3) Remove from fire and pour into a buttered pan.
  
  4) Cut into 1 inch squares and press a walnut half on top of each cookie.
  
  Variations:  Place 1/2 square of coconut candy or about 1 Teaspoon of
  crystallized sugar and coconut on one corner of a small WONTON wrapper (
  See Recipe WONTON.TXT )
  
  Fold over corner of wrapper, enclosing candy mixture.  Pinch together two
  opposite free corners of wrapper, leaving one corner free.
  
  Fry in deep hot oil until golden brown.
 
      Title: Chitty-Chitty Bang-Bang Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Entertain
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      4 tb Cocoa
    1/4 lb Butter (or margarine)
      2 ts Light corn syrup
      1 cn Evaporated milk, small
      1 ts -Water
 
   Mix all ingredients and stir over low heat.
   Cook to soft ball stage when dropped in cold water.
   Beat by hand until mixture loses gloss. Chopped nuts can be added.
   Pour into a greased 8 x 8-inch pan.  Cut into pieces. Cool.
   Good fudge! This was a recipe from the Chitty-Chitty Bang-Bang story book
  read by my son, Curtis Burton, while in grade school and has been a family
  favorite since 1970.
  
     Joyce Burton, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
      Title: Choco Scotch Clusters
 Categories: Cookies, Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 10
 
      6 oz Chocolate Chips, Semisweet
      6 oz Butterscotch Morsels
    1/4 c  Peanut Butter
      3 c  Cereal, Rice Krispies
 
  Melt chocolate, butterscotch, and peanut butter in top of a double boiler,
  stirring constantly, until well blended.  Remove from heat, add Rice
  Krispies and stir until cereal is thouroughly coated.  Drop by tablespoon
  on wax paper.  Cool until firm. VARIATION: For a lighter snack, increase
  the Rice Krispies to 4 cups.
 
 
      Title: Choco-Almond Confections
 Categories: Candies, Christmas, Entertain
   Servings:  3
 
  1 1/4 c  Blue Diamond Chopped Natural
           -Almonds, toasted
      1 oz Squares milk chocolate
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      3 c  Crushed lemon, orange, or
           -vanilla wafers
      2 tb Curacao or orange juice
 
  The positively elegant "very adult" confection is from Blue Diamond.
  
  In blender or food processor, finely grind 1/4 cup of the almonds; set
  aside. Combine chocolate with orange juice and sugar in saucepan. Cook over
  medium heat, stirring constantly until sugar is dissolved and chocolate is
  melted. Remove from heat and mix in crushed wafers, Curacao and the chopped
  almonds. Chill mixture at least one hour. Form into small balls; roll in
  the ground almonds. Refrigerate in air-tight container for several days for
  best flavor to develop. Makes about 3 dozen.
 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cups
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
           CHOCOLATE CUPS:
      2 c  Milk Chocolate Chips
      2 tb Vegetable shortening
     24    1" paper candy cups
           PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
    3/4 c  Creamy peanut butter
    3/4 c  Confectioners' sugar, sifted
      1 tb Butter, melted
 
  Combine over hot, not boiling, water, the milk chocolate chips and
  vegetable shortening.  Stir until the chips are melted and the mixture is
  smooth.  Remove from the heat but keep over the hot water.  Coat the inside
  of the candy cups by using 1 t. of the chocolate mixture for each cup.
  Place the candy cups in the palm of your hand and rotate gently, using a
  narrow rubber spatula to push the chocolate up the sides of the cup. Chill.
  
  PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
  
  In a small bowl, combine the peanut butter, confectioners' sugar and
  butter, mixing until well blended.  Using slightly rounded teaspoonfulls,
  shape the peanut butter filling into balls.  Place 1 ball in each chilled
  cup and press lightly with your fingers to flatten. Spoon 1 level t. of the
  reserved chocolate mixture on top and smooth over to seal. Chill until
  form, about 45 minutes.  Store in airtight container in the refrigerator.
  
  Source:  Rich Harper, FidoNet Cooking Echo
 
      Title: Chocolate Covered Cherries
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 20
 
     60    Maraschino cherries w/stems
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Light corn syrup
      2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 lb Chocolate, melted
 
  Drain cherries for several hours.  Combine softened butter and corn syrup.
  Stir in powdered sugar.  Chill if too soft.  Shape 1/2 teaspoon mixture
  around each cherry.  Place on baking sheet with wax paper and chill until
  firm.  Dip cherries into chocolate by stem.  Chill for 1 to 2 weeks.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Creme De Mints
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings: 12
 
      2 c  Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
    1/4 c  Sour Cream
  2 1/2 tb Mint Flavored Liqueur
 
  Melt over hot (not boiling) water, milk chocolate chips; stir until smooth.
  Remove from heat.  Blend in sour cream.  Stir in mint flavored liqueur.
  Transfer to a small bowl.  Chill until thickened, about 30 minutes. Fill
  pastry bag fitted with decorative tip; pipe 1-inch candies onto foil-lined
  cookie sheets.  Chill until ready to serve.
 
      Title: Chocolate Marzipan Slices - Mandulas Szalami
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
      7 oz Almond Paste, 2 tubes
      2 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate *
    1/4 c  Almonds, Chopped
           Powdered Sugar
 
  * Use 2 squares that have been melted and cooled.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mix the almond paste, chocolate and almonds thoroughly.  Knead on a surface
  sprinkled with 1 to 2 T of powdered sugar until of a uniform color and
  consistency.  Shape into a roll, about 6 inches long; roll in powdered
  sugar.  Wrap in plastic wrap; refrigerate at least 12 hours and then cut
  the roll into 1/4-inch slices. Makes about 24 candies.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Fingers
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings: 32
 
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      1 c  Powdered milk
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
    1/3 c  Raisins
    1/3 c  Glace'cherries
    1/3 c  Mixed candied peel
           Vanilla extract
      1 c  Vegetable shortening, melted
 
  Sift powdered sugar, powdered milk and cocoa into a bowl. Add fruit and
  toss until fruit is well coated.
  
  Stir in shortening and a few drops of vanilla. Mix thoroughly.
  
  Line an 8-inch square pan with plastic wrap. Pour mixture into pan.
  Refrigerate until firm. Turn out onto a board and cut into fingers. Wrap
  pieces in foil or pladtic wrap. Store in an airtight container in a cool
  place.
  
  Makes about 32 fingers.
  
  Source: Gifts From The Pantry By Annette Grimsdale
 
      Title: Chocolate Liqueur Shells
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings: 12
 
      3 oz Each of semi-sweet or
           -bittersweet, milk and white
           Chocolate, melted in
           -separate bowls

      3 oz White chocolate, chopped
      2    Eggs, separated
      1 tb Each of Tia Maria, creme de
           -menthe or:
           Cointreau food coloring if
           -desired
 
  With a spoon, smear melted chocolate evenly over inside of 12 paper cups.
  Turn cups upside down on a plate. Refrigerate until set. Gently peel off
  the paper.
  
  Mousse:
  
  Slowly melt white chocolate. Remove from heat; quickly beat in egg yolks.
  Set aside. In a separate bowl, beat egg whites until stiff, but not dry.
  Divide egg yolk min into three separate bowls and add 1 teaspoon of a
  different liqueur to each bowl. Add a drop or two of green food coloring to
  bowl containing creme de menthe - if desired. A drop or two of yellow
  coloring can be added to Cointreau mixture. Gently fold a third of the egg
  whites into each of the bowls.
  
  Spoon into chocolate shells. Refrigerate 2 hours. These shells should be
  consumed within 24 hours. The chocolate cases can be made ahead of time and
  stored in a cool, dry place.
  
  Makes 12 candies.
  
  Source: Gifts From The Pantry By Annette Grimsdale
 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Log
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      3 tb Peanut butter
    3/4 oz Quick-cooking oats
      2 ts Unsweetened cocoa
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 tb Plus 1 1/2 tsp water
      3 ts Sugar or equivalent
    1/3 c  Non-fat dry milk
 
  In a small bowl, combine all ingredients and mix well. Place mixture on wax
  paper and shape into a log. Roll up wax paper and chill in the refrigerator
  at least 30 minutes.
  
  Source: Berkshire Eagle 2/25/91
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Amaretto Truffles
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Candies
   Servings: 15
 
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Amaretto liqueur
    1/2 c  Finely chopped nuts
 
  DIRECTIONS: Melt broken chocolate; remove from heat. Stir in Amaretto. Add
  butter, a tablespoon at a time, beating with a wire whip until smooth and
  creamy. Chill 5 to 10 minutes to firm mixture. Drop by teaspoon and roll
  into nuts. Keep truffles refrigerated until ready to serve.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Walnut Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Icing sugar
      1 c  Cocoa
  1 1/2    Butter or margarine
  1 1/2    Chopped walnuts
           Walnut halves
 
  Sift together icing sugar and cocoa.  Melt butter in a saucepan.  Continue
  cooking until buter is hot and bubbly.  Remove from heat.  Blend hot butter
  into cocoa mixture.  Stir in chopped nuts.  Spread in a greased 8 inch
  square cake pan. Garnish with walnut halves. Chill until set. Store in
  refrigerator.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Bourbon Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  3
 
    1/2 c  Margaine or butter
      4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 c  Finely chopped nuts
    1/4 c  Bourbon
      1 pk (6 ounces) milk chocolate
           -chips
      3 tb Half-and-half.
 
  1.  Place margarine in medium bowl.  Microwave at HIGH (100%) until melted,
  1 to 2 minutes.  Mix in sugar, nuts and bourbon.  Refrigerate until firm.
  
  2.  Shape into 1-inch balls.  Refrigerate until firm.  Combine chocolate
  chips and half-and-half in a small bowl. Microwave at MEDIUM-HIGH (70%)
  until chocolate chips are melted, 1 to 2-1/2 minutes, stirring once or
  twice. Stir until smooth. Drizzle chocolate over candies. (Reheat chocolate
  as needed.) Chill.
  
  * The picture shows them sitting in little paper candy cups.
 
      Title: Chocolate Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
           Sharon Stevens
  1 1/8 lb Semi-sweet chocolate chips
     14 oz Can condensed milk
      1 tb Vanilla
           Finely chopped nuts
           Flaked coconut
           Chocolate sprinkles
           Colored sprinkles
           Unsweetened cocoa powder
           Icing sugar
 
  In heavy sauce pan, over low heat, melt chocolate chips with condensed
  milk. Remove from heat; stir in vanilla. Chill 2 hours or until firm. Shape
  into 1 inch balls; roll in any of the above coatings. Chill 1 hour, or
  until firm. Store covered at room temperature.
  
  Makes about 6 dozen
 
      Title: Chocolate Mints (Karin Brewer)
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     12 oz Chocolate chips
     14 oz Can condensed milk
      1 ts Peppermint flavoring
 
  Melt chocolate and milk slowly over low heat.  Stir in peppermint.  Drop by
  sm spoonfuls onto waxed paper.  Allow to dry and set for several hours or
  overnight.  Store in a covered container, but do not refrigerate.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cocoa; or 2 sq. chocolate
      2 tb Karo
    2/3 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Butter
 
  Mix and boil to soft ball stage. Add chunk of butter and vanilla, let stand
  until cool. Beat until creamy, add nuts if desired. Pour into buttered
  plate and cut into squares.
  
  Source: Mrs. C. W. Houser, Jackson Grange, Hancock County, OH Mrs. Lillian
  Morehead, Monroe Grange, Clermont County, OH
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
      8 oz Bittersweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter, cut in
           -chunks
      2    Egg yolks
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
    1/3 c  Icing sugar
 
  Break chocolate into chunks and melt in top of double boiler over hot water
  (not boiling). Remvoe chocolate from heat and let cool slightly. Add
  butter, bit by bit, stirrig after each addition.  Stir in egg yolks, one at
  a time. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for several hours or until
  firm.  Dip small spoon or melon baller into hot water and shape chocolate
  into blls the size of cherry tomatoes. If desired, dust hands with cocoa
  and shape chocolate into smoother balls.  Sift cocoa and sugar together
  into large pie plate. Place as many balls in plate as will fit comfortably.
  Slide plate back and forth on counter until all balls are coated. Truffles
  can be stored in covered container for up to 1 week in refrigerator or up
  to 1 month in freezer.  If refrigerated, let stand at room temperature for
  30 minutes before serving.  If frozen, let thaw in fridge. Makes about 2
  dozen 1-inch balls.
  
  Origin:  Canadian Living magazine, Dec/88 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
      Title: Chocolate Balls with Cherry Centers
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     50    Whole candied cherries
    3/4 c  Cherry brandy (more may be
           -necessary)
    1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
           -into pieces
    1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
  1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    7/8 c  Butter, softened
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
           Powdered sugar
           Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain the cherries,
  reserve the brandy.
  
  Cream the butter and sugar in a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolates.  Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the butter
  and sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir by hand until
  all is absorbed.  Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.
  
  Put mixture in the freezer and thoroughly chill.  Prepare a surface to
  assemble the balls.  Mix equal amounts of cocoa and powdered sugar, about
  1/3 cup each.  On a piece of waxed paper, heavily dust with the cocoa
  powdered sugar mixture.  Remove the chocolate from the freezer when it is
  chilled and stiff.  For each cherry, spoon out a heaping teaspoon of the
  chocolate and drop on dusted paper. Dip your fingers into the cocoa/sugar
  mixture and flatten chocolate to a small pancake. Place a cherry in the
  center and fold chocolate around it.  Gently roll the ball between your
  palms to form and finish by rolling the ball in the cocoa/sugar mixture.
  Repeat for each cherry.  If the chocolate mixture softens, return to the
  freezer to firm up.
  
  Place the completed balls in a container with a lid and store in the frig.
  
  These balls are dense and heavy with a rich chocolate flavor.  For a
  lighter flavor, I suggest you omit the unsweetened baking chocolate and add
  1/4 lb. more milk chocolate.
  
  Licking your fingers is not permitted during the assembly, but manditory
  after you are done.  (grin)
 
      Title: Chocolate Covered Candied Cherries
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     50    Whole candied cherries
    3/4 c  Cherry brandy
    1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
           -into pieces
    1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
  1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
           Powdered sugar
           Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain cherries,
  reserve the brandy.
  
  Cream butter and sugar with a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolates. Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the butter and
  sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir in my hand
  until all is absorbed.  Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.
  
  Put mixture in a clean bowl and thoroughly chill in the freezer. Meanwhile,
  make a 50-50 mixture of powdered sugar and cocoa.  Begin with 1/3 c. EACH
  and mix thoroughly.  Heavily dust a sheet of waxed paper on a working
  surface.
  
  When the chocolate mixture is chilled and very stiff, remove from the
  freezer. Drop by teaspoonfuls on dusted working surface and dust your
  fingers in the sugar/cocoa mixture, press with fingers to make a small flat
  shape with the chocolate.  Drop a cherry in the center and form a ball
  around the cherry.
  
  Working quickly, complete the shape by rolling the ball between your palms.
  
  Roll ball in sugar/cocoa mixture to coat.  Continue working until the
  chocolate mixture is too soft to continue.  Return to freezer to chill some
  more and continue until all the chocolate and cherries are gone.
  
  The chocolate covered cherries can be stored in the frig.
  
  For a lighter, sweeter chocolate taste, increase the sweet chocolate and
  decrease or eliminate the unsweetened chocolate.  The more milk chocolate
  you use, the more diffucult it will be to work with as it melts rather
  rapidly.
  
  You can also substitute and equal portion of semi-sweet bits (toll house
  chocolates) for the chocolate.
  
  Other candied fruit and liquors can be used according to your taste.
  
  Enjoy!
 
      Title: Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lg Can Evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      4 c  Sugar
      2 pk Chocolate pieces ( 6 Ozs ea)
    1/2    Jar marshmellow cream
 
  Combine first three ingredients in saucepan and cook to 234 deg.F or until
  it forms a soft ball in cold water. Stir often. Remove from heat and fold
  in remaining ingredients. If desired add chopped nuts. Pour into greased 8
  X 13 inch pan. Refrigerate until firm. Cut into squares.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Scotch Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 40
 
  1 1/2 lb Good-quality unsweetened
           -chocolate
      2    Egg yolks
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
    1/2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      4 tb (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Scotch whiskey
     30    Whole shelled hazelnuts
      1 c  Sifted unsweetened cocoa
           -powder, for dusting
 
  1.  Preheat the oven to 375F.
  
  2.  Place 10 oz. of the chocolate in a heavy saucepan, and melt over low
  heat.  Remove the pan from the heat and set aside.
  
  3.  Combine the egg yolks and 1/2 cup of the confectioner's sugar in a
  large bowl, and cream until well blended.
  
  4.  Combine the cream, butter, and remaining 1/2 c. sugar in a medium-size
  saucepan and bring to a boil, stirring until the butter and sugar are
  thoroughly melted.
  
  5.  Slowly pour the hot sugar mixture over the egg yolk mixture, whisking
  constantly.  Mix thoroughly and set aside to cool slightly. Then stir in
  the melted chocolate and the Scotch; beat for 1 minute.
  
  6.  Place the mixture in the refrigerator and chill until firm, 30 to 45
  minutes.
  
  7.  Meanwhile, place the hazelnuts on a baking sheet and toast them in the
  oven for 15 minutes.  Remove them from the oven and rub handfuls of nuts in
  a kitchen towel to remove the skins.  Set them aside.
  
  8.  Roll a spoonful of the chilled chocolate around each hazelnut to form a
  truffle about 1 inch in diameter.  Set them on a baking sheet lined with
  waxed paper, and chill thoroughly in the refrigerator 2 to 3 hours.
  
  9.  Melt the remaining 14 oz. chocolate in a heavy saucepan over low heat.
  Remove the pan from the heat.
  
  10.  Sprinkle a shallow dish generously with cocoa.  Dip each truffle in
  the melted chocolate, covering it completely.  Then lift it out with a fork
  and roll it in the cocoa.  Arrange the truffles on the baking sheet again,
  and chill before serving.
  
  Source:  "The New Basics Cookbook," Julee Rosso & Sheila Lukins
 
      Title: Chocolate Spiders
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     12 oz Package semi-sweet chocolate
           -chips
      1 c  Peanuts
  3 1/2 c  Chow mein noodles
 
  Melt chips in double-boiler, remove from heat, stir in peanuts and noodles.
  
  Drop on waxed paper. Keep in the refrigerator...way in the back so the kids
  won't find them and you can sneak bites after they have gone to bed. hehe
  
  Probably you should hide them behind the broccoli!!
  
  Sheryl
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Fruit Balls
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Gift
   Servings: 25
 
    125 g  Dried apricots, chopped
    1/3 c  Raisins, chopped
    1/3 c  Sultanas, chopped
      2 ts Grated orange rind
     60 g  Dark chocolate, grated
    180 g  Dark chocolate, extra
     60 g  Butter
 
  Combine apricots, raisins, sultanas, rind and grated dark chocolate in a
  small bowl. Roll teaspoons of mixture into balls, refrigerate overnight.
  
  Break extra chocolate into pieces, place in top of a double saucepan with
  butter over simmering water. Stir until smooth or microwave on HIGH for 2
  minutes. Dip each fruit ball in chocolate until evenly coated. Place balls
  on foil-covered trays; allow to set in a cool place. Store balls in
  airtight container in refrigerator.
  
  Makes about 25
 
      Title: Chocolate Popcorn Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
    1/4 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    3/4 c  Water
  1 1/2 c  Popped corn, chopped
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Melt chocolate in saucepan.  Add sugar, milk, water, butter, and salt. Boil
  to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire. Add flavoring and
  popped corn.  Cool to room temperature. Stir until creamy. Pour into
  well-buttered, shallow pan.  Cut in squares. Grace Viall Gray, Glen Ellyn,
  IL.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 64
 
      1 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
  1 1/2 c  Half-and-half
  1 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
           - melted
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 pn Salt
 
  COMBINE THE SUGAR, CORN SYRUP, and 1/2 cup of cream in a large saucepan set
  over moderate heat. Stir the mixture until the sugar dissolves completely.
  Insert a candy thermometer, reduce the heat to low, and cook the syrup,
  stirring frequently, until the thermometer registers 238F. Blend in another
  1/2 cup of the cream, which will cause the temperature to drop, and
  continue to cook and stir until the thermometer reaches 236F or until a bit
  of the hot toffee dropped into a little cold water forms a soft, pliable
  ball. Mix in the remaining 1/2 cup cream and the melted chocolate. Cook the
  toffee, stirring constantly, lest it scorch. Cook toffee until the mixture
  becomes quite thick: A drop of it should firm up quickly in cold water.
  (NOTE: Even though the temperature of the toffee may not exceed 230F, if it
  firms in cold water, remove the pan from the heat at once.) Quickly mix in
  the vanilla and salt, then pour the toffee into a well-buttered
  8-by-8-by-2-inch pan. Cool the toffee completely, then cut it into 1-inch
  squares. Wrap each one in waxed paper or plastic wrap.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
      Title: Chocolate Nut Caramels
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  White sugar
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
      2 c  Cream
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      6 tb Cocoa
      1 c  Walnuts
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Boil together sugar, corn syrup, cocoa, butter and 1 cup cream. Boil until
  it threads, then add slowly the other cup cream. Boil to firm ball stage
  when tested in cold water. Add vanilla and nuts, beat until creamy.
  
  From the book "Treasured Mennonite Recipes" by the Mennonite Community
  Relief Sales Volume 1
  
  AR/93
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Filled Eggs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  8
 
           -Robbie Shelton XXXJ77A
      8 oz Dark Couverture Chocolate
      8 lg Eggs
      1 c  Heavy Cream
    1/2    Stick Butter
    1/2 c  Hazelnut Chocolate Spread
           -(Nutella)
 
  To prepare the eggs, allow them to warm to room temperatures, wash and
  shake each one well.  With a sharp knife, remove a small piece of sh ell
  from one end and puncture the other end of each egg with a needle. Remove
  the yolks and whites by blowing through the small hole.  Rinse the shells
  with water and allow to dry.  Place them, large hole up, in an empty egg
  carton.
  
  Cut the chocolate into small pieces.  Bring the heavy cream to the boiling
  point in a saucepan, add the chocolate and stir with a whisk until the
  chocolate is melted and well blended.  Remove from the heat and add the
  butter and hazelnut chocolate spread.  Whisk until blended.
  
  Using a small funnel, pour the filling, while still warm, into the egg
  shells and refrigerate.
  
  Serve the eggs in egg cups.
  
  This recipe is from Salt and Pepper Publications "Chocolate The French
  Way.."
 
      Title: Chocolate Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Gift, Christmas
   Servings: 24
 
    1/3 c  Thickened cream
    150 g  Dark chocolate
     30 g  Butter
      1 tb Brandy
    1/4 c  Cocoa, sifted
 
  Place cream in a small saucepan, bring to the boil. Reduce heat, stir in
  chocolate until melted, stir in butter and brandy; refrigerate overnight.
  Roll teaspoons of mixture into balls, dust with cocoa. Refrigerate in
  airtight container until required.
  
  Makes about 24.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Candy Squares
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings: 24
 
    1/2 c  Margarine (melted)
      2 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      6 oz Pkg. chocolate chips
  1 1/2 c  Flaked coconut
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Brown sugar (firmly packed)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Laurie Gill Pour melted butter in bottom of
  13x9" baking pan. Sprinkle vanilla wafer crumbs evenly over butter.
  Sprinkle walnuts over crumbs, chocolate chips over walnuts and coconut over
  chocolate. Combine evaporated milk with brown sugar. Stir until smooth.
  Pour evenly over layers. Bake at 350 degrees for 25 minutes. Cool for 1
  hour. Cut into 1-1/2 ea squares.
 
      Title: Chocolate Balls with Cherry Cordial Centers
 Categories: Candies, Martin
   Servings:  6
 
     50    Whole candied cherries
    3/4 c  Cherry brandy (more may be
           -necessary)
    1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
           -into pieces
    1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
  1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    7/8 c  Butter, softened
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
    1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain the cherries,
  reserve the brandy.
  
  Cream the butter and sugar in a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolates.  Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the butter
  and sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir by hand until
  all is absorbed. Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.
  
  Put mixture in the freezer and thoroughly chill.  Prepare a surface to
  assemble the balls.  Mix equal amounts of cocoa and powdered sugar, about
  1/3 cup each. On a piece of waxed paper, heavily dust with the cocoa
  powdered sugar mixture. Remove the chocolate from the freezer when it is
  chilled and stiff. For each cherry, spoon out a heaping teaspoon of the
  chocolate and drop on dusted paper. Dip your fingers into the cocoa/sugar
  mixture and flatten chocolate to a small pancake. Place a cherry in the
  center and fold chocolate around it. Gently roll the ball between your
  palms to form and finish by rolling the ball in the cocoa/sugar mixture.
  Repeat for each cherry. If the chocolate mixture softens, return to the
  freezer to firm up.
  
  Place the completed balls in a container with a lid and store in the frig.
  
  These balls are dense and heavy with a rich chocolate flavor.  For a
  lighter flavor, I suggest you omit the unsweetened baking chocolate and add
  1/4 lb. more milk chocolate.
  
  Licking your fingers is not permitted during the assembly, but manditory
  after you are done.  (grin)
  
  There's yet another variation to chocolate covered cherries.  It's for the
  brave & daring at heart.
  
  You have to start in the summertime, when cherries are ripe.  You take a
  pound of them, a pound of rock candy, and a fifth of good brandy or
  bourbon. Mix together, & let set in the back of the 'fridge for 3-4 months.
  
  When you finally get around to making the chocolate covered cherries, you
  use the preserved cherries for the centers, & the liquor as the base for
  the cordial. Courtesy of: Al Martin
 
      Title: Chocolate Toffee Candy
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 c  Coarsely chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
 
  Sprinkle pecans in bottom of buttered 8 inch square baking pan.  Combine
  butter and brown sugar in 2 quart heavy saucepan. Cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a boil. Continue cooking,
  stirring constantly, until mixture reaches hard crack stage (295F) on candy
  thermometer. Immediately pour hot mixture over pecans,spreading evenly.
  Sprinkle with chocolate pieces. Let stand 5 minutes. Spread melted
  chocolate evenly over all. When chocolate is set, break up into pieces.
  Makes about 3/4 of a pound. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
      Title: Chocolate Butterscotch Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Sugar
     15 oz Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Water
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
      6 oz Butterscotch flavored pieces
    1/4 c  Butter or regular margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  An original recipe from a Georgia homemaker.  She combined three different
  fudge recipes and came up with this fast fix fudge that doesn't require
  refrigeration.
  
  Combine sugar, sweetened condensed milk, water, chocolate and butterscotch
  pieces in 3 quart heavy saucepan.  Cook over medium heat,stirring
  constantly, to soft ball stage (234F) Remove from heat. combine butter and
  vanilla in mixing bowl. Pour hot mixture into bowl. Beat with electric
  mixer at high speed until mixture starts to thicken. Stir in walnuts.
  Spread into greased 9 inch square baking pan. Cool and cut in 1-1/2 inch
  squares.  Makes 36 pieces. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
      Title: Chocolate Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 16
 
           Karen Mintzias
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate *
      4 tb Unsalted butter **
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      2    Egg yolks, lightly beaten
      4 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
 
  *Note: Semisweet chocolate should be coarsely chopped. ** Unsalted butter
  should be cut into small pieces.
  
  In a double boiler, melt the chocolate and butter over simmering water.
  Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.  In a small bowl, gradually
  whisk the warm chocolate mixture into the egg yolks.  Cover and refrigerate
  until firm, about 1 hour.
  
  Shape level tablespoons of the chocolate mixture into balls and then roll
  them in the cocoa.  Refrigerate the truffles.
  
  Recipe by Diana Sturgis "Great Desserts" ISBN: 0-916103-04-8 Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Ribbon Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
      4 oz Plus 2 tb butter,
           Cut into tablespoons
  3 1/2 oz Marshmallow creme
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      5 oz Evaporated milk
      2 tb Powdered sugar
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  Wait until you taste this--it's fabulous, easy, and makes a wonderful gift.
  
  1. In a small glass bowl, combine peanut butter and 2 tablespoons butter.
  Heat in a microwave oven on High 30 to 60 seconds, stirring once, until
  butter is melted and peanut butter is soft. Stir in powdered sugar until
  well blended; set aside.
  
  2. In a large bowl, combine chocolate chips, remaining 1 stick butter,
  marshmallow creme, and vanilla; set aside.
  
  3. In a large saucepan, combine granulated sugar and evaporated milk. Heat
  over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a boil. Boil 6
  minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over chocolate mixture in bowl and stir
  briskly until chocolate and butter melt and mixture is well blended.
  
  4. Turn half of chocolate mixture into a well-buttered 8-inch square pan.
  Carefully spoon reserved peanut butter mixture over chocolate layer,
  spreading evenly. Carefully place remaining chocolate mixture over peanut
  butter mixture and spread evenly. Refrigerate until set. Cut into 25
  squares.
  
  Source: 365 Great Chocolate Desserts By Natalie Haughton
 
      Title: Chocolate Caramels
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Butter or butter substitute
      2 c  Chopped nuts
      1 c  Corn sirup
      3    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
      1 c  Cream
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
 
  Cut chocolate in small pieces.  Add sugar, butter, salt, sirup, and cream.
  Cover and boil 5 minutes.  Uncover.  Boil slowly, stirring constantly, to
  firm ball stage (248 F).  Remove from fire. Add flavoring and stir until
  well blended.  Pour quickly over nuts which have been placed in
  well-buttered pan.  When cool cut in squares. The Household Searchlight
 
      Title: Chocolate Nougatines
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  White corn sirup
    1/3 c  Strained honey
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Egg whites
      1 c  Chopped nuts
    1/4 ts Vanilla
    1/2 lb Dipping chocolate
 
  Combine sugar, sirup, honey, and water.  Stir occasionally.  Boil to hard
  ball stage (265 - 270 F).  Add salt to eggs.  Beat until stiff. Gradually
  pour on half of the sirup, beating constantly with the egg beater or a
  spoon.  Boil remaining sirup to hard crack stage (285 - 290 F). Pour
  gradually onto egg mixture, beating constantly. Place over fire on asbestos
  mat. Beat until thick. Add flavoring and nuts. Pour into well-buttered,
  shallow pans.  When cool cut in squares.  Coat these with melted chocolate.
  Winifred McGovern, Waterville, MN.
 
      Title: Chocolate Dipped Candies
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Cut 1 pound dipping chocolate into small pieces.  Place in upper part
  double boiler.  Place in lower part, which is 1/4 full of lukewarm water
  (120 F).  Stir constantly until melted.  Beat thoroughly. Place candy on a
  fork or confectioner's dipper.  Dip one piece at a time into melted
  chocolate.  When the surface is entirely coated, drain. Place on waxed
  paper.  Make a swirl over the top. Set in cool place to harden. Caution:
  Keep water in double boiler at even temperature. Work in a cool room, free
  from steam, if desirable results are to be obtained.  Fruits, nuts, mints,
  and other candies may be dipped in chocolate. The Household Searchlight
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
           OR 6  Tbsp cocoa
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    2/3 c  Milk
           Few grains salt
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, milk, butter, salt, and grated chocolate, or cocoa. Cover
  until boiling point is reached.  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Add
  flavoring and cool, without stirring, to room temperature. Beat until
  mixture is creamy, thick, and will hold its shape when dropped from a
  teaspoon.  Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper, or pour into
  well-buttered, shallow pan. Cut in squares. The Household Searchlight
 
      Title: Chocolate Nut Chews
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa
    1/2 c  Pet evaporated milk
    1/3 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Peanut butter
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Quick rolled oats
    1/2 c  Salted peanuts
 
  Mix in a heavy 2 quart saucepan, sugar, cocoa, milk and butter.  Stir over
  medium heat until mixture bubbles all over top.  Boil and stir 2 minutes
  more.  Remove from heat.  Stir in until melted the peanut butter; add the
  vanilla, uncooked quick rolled oats and nuts.  With 2 teaspoons, drop on
  waxed paper.  Let stand until set.  Makes 36 chews.
 
 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cups Ala Weight Watchers
 Categories: Cyberealm, Candies
   Servings:  4
 
      2 tb Chunky peanut butter
      1 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  1. In a small heatproof bowl, combine peanut butter and chocolate; place
  bowl in medium heatproof bowl and fill the medium bowl with boiling water.
  Let stand, stirring frequently until chocolate is melted and well-combined.
  
  2. Set 8 fluted paper candy liners on a serving platter; using a teaspoon,
  spoon 1/8 of the chocolate mixture into each liner. Cover platter with
  plastic wrap and refrigerate until candies are firm.
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Quick and Easy Menu Cookbook Makes 4 servings, 2
  candies each
  
  Each serving provides: 1/2 protein, 60 optional calories
  
  Per serving:  84 calories
 
      Title: Chocolate-Dipped Strawmberries
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 pt Strawberries with stems on
           -(preferably a
           Long-stemmed variety),
           -washed and
           Patted dry
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Cooking oil
 
  Spread strawberries on a working surface with wax-paper-covered tray
  nearby. You will also need one or two bamboo skewers or other picks.
  
  In the top of a double boiler over hot water, melt the chocolate with the
  cooking oil, stirring to mix thoroughly.  (The cooking oil will add a
  beautiful shine to the completed sweet.)  Place melted chocolate near
  working surface, but keep chocolate warm.
  
  One at a time, insert the skewer in the stem end of a strawberry and dip
  into the chocolate.  Lift out and shake any excess chocolate back into the
  pot.  Place the strawberry on the wax paper and continue with the remaining
  berries.  The strawberries should set for about 10 minutes before being
  served.
  
  Chocolate-dipped strawberries can be refrigerated for up to 24 hours,
  during which time the chocolate will harden.
 
      Title: Chocolatey Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Entertain, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    1/4 c  Cocoa
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light Corn Syrup
    1/4 c  Whipping (Heavy) Cream
  1 1/4 c  Salted Peanuts
 
  Yield: About 1 Pound Of Candy
  
  Adding chocolate to peanut brittle makes the brittle taste different from
  any you've ever had before.
  
  Lightly butter a cookie sheet and set aside.  In a small bowl, stir
  together the cocoa and baking soda then add the butter.  Set aside. In a
  heavy 2 quart saucepan, stir together the sugar, corn syrup, and whipping
  cream.  Cook, over medium heat, stirring constantly until the sugar is
  dissolved.  Stir in the peanuts.  Continue cooking, stirring frequently,
  until the mixture reaches 300 Degrees F. or when syrup dropped into very
  cold water separates into threads which are hard and brittle.  (Make sure
  that the bulb of the candy thermometer is not resting on the bottom of the
  pan when using one.) Remove from the heat and stir in the cocoa mixture.
  Immediately pour onto the prepared cookie sheet.  With tongs or wooden
  spoons, quickly spread and pull into a 1/4-inch thickness.  Place the
  cookie sheet on a wire rack to cool completely.  When the candy is cold,
  snap into pieces and store in a tightly covered container.
 
      Title: Christmas Delight Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 lb Marshmallows
      1 pk Figs; small package
    1/2 lb Dates; stoned
    1/2 lb Almonds; blanched
    1/2 c  Pecans; or walnuts
      1 c  Cocoanut; shredded
      1    Maraschino cherries; small
           -bottle
 
  Melt marshmallows over hot water until very soft. Grind figs, dates, nuts
  and cocoanut. Chop and drain cherries. Mix and pat out to 1/2 inch
  thickness. Cut in squares, roll in granulated sugar.
  
  Source: Lillian Dake, Hinckley Grange, Medina County, OH
 
 
      Title: Cinnamon Candy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Corn sirup
      1 tb Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Combine ingredients.  Boil to soft crack stage (275 - 280 F). Pour into
  well-buttered, shallow pan.  When cool, cut in squares. Jennie M. Cable,
  Columbia, MO.
 
      Title: Cinnamon Flavored Candied Apples
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
     12    Red apples
      1 c  White corn syrup
      1 c  Sugar
      4    To 6 drops cinnamon oil
           Red food coloring, enough to
           -make a nice red
 
  Stick skewers into clean red apples.  Combine in heavy saucepan, sugar,
  syrup and cinnamon oil and cook over low heat.  Stir until dissolved. Turn
  to medium heat and do not stir.  Cook to 248 degrees on a candy
  thermometer. Stir in coloring.  Place pan over boiling water while twirling
  one apple at at time in mixture.  Twirl once and then set it up and twirl
  apple again.  Place on buttered pan or foil and store in refrigerator.
  
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
 
      Title: Cinnamon Pecans
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  4
 
  3 1/2 c  Pecans
      3 ts Cinnamon
      1 ds Salt
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Combine the sugar and water.  Cook to a soft ball, then add the cinnamon
  and salt, mix well; - then add your pecans.  Stir until it hardens. Pour
  out, let cool, then lets eat!!
 
 
      Title: Cocoanut Caramels
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Butter
      1 c  Cocoanut
 
  Melt 1 c. brown sugar. Add milk, remaining brown sugar and butter. Boil to
  soft ball. Add cocoanut. Beat and drop from teaspoon on wax paper. Cool.
  
  Source: Ruth Leimbach, Huron Grange, Erie County, OH
 
 
      Title: Coconut Almond Balls
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Microwave
   Servings: 26
 
      4 c  (8 1/2-oz) shredded coconut
           -(fresh package!)
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
      1 pk (11 1/2-oz) milk chocolate
           -pieces
    1/4 c  Vegetable shortening
     26    Whole natural almonds (1-oz)
 
  Tastes just like Almond Joy.
  
  Line two large cookie sheets with waxed paper. Set large wire cooling rack
  on paper; set aside.
  
  Place coconut in large bowl; set aside.
  
  Place corn syrup in a 1-cup glass measure. Microwave on high (100%) 1
  minute or until syrup boils. Immediately pour over coconut. Work warm syrup
  into coconut using the back of a wooden spoon until coconut is thoroughly
  coated. This takes a little time, and yes, there is enough syrup.
  
  Using 1 level measuring tablespoon of coconut, shape into a ball by
  squeezing coconut firmly in palm of one hand, then rolling between both
  palms. (HINT: Measure out all of the coconut then roll into balls.) Place 2
  inches apart on wire racks. Let dry 10 minutes. Reroll coconut balls so
  there are no loose ends of coconut sticking up.
  
  Place milk chocolate and shortening in a 4-cup glass measure or 1 1/2 quart
  microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on high 1 to 2 minutes or until mixture can
  be stirred smooth and is glossy; stirring once or twice.
  
  Working quickly, spoon 1 level measuring tablespoon of the chocolate over
  each coconut ball, making sure chocolate coats and letting excess chocolate
  drip down onto waxed paper. While chocolate coating is still soft, lightly
  press whole almond on top of each. Let stand to set or place in
  refrigerator. Store in a single layer in airtight container. Keeps best if
  refrigerated. Makes 26.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [1,001 Home Ideas, Feb 1990]
 
      Title: Coconut Bon Bons
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  1
 
     15 oz Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Butter, or margarine
      2 c  Confectioners' sugar
     12 oz Coconut, grated dried
     24 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      4 tb Shortening
 
  Mix together condensed milk, butter, sugar and coconut. Cover with wax
  paper and chill for 24 hours.
  
  Melt chocolate with shortening.  Roll coconut mixture into balls and with
  fork dip into chocolate.  Drop on wax paper to cool and dry.
 
 
      Title: Coconut Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Milk
      3 c  Grated coconut
 
  Boil the sugar and milk over a medium heat until it forms a thin syrup.
  (232 to 240 degrees on your candy thermometer) Add grated coconut, stirring
  frequently to prevent burning. When mixture thickens, drop by the spoonful
  onto a piece of waxed paper and allow to cool. This will make 24 nice
  pieces.
  
  A drop of your favorite seasonal food coloring can be added for variety.
  
  From: Real Guamanian Recipes By Way Of Dorothy's Kitchen By: Dorothy Horn
  Posted by: Bill McGimpsey
 
      Title: Coconut Date Slices
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  7
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Light corn syrup
    3/4 c  Evaporated milk
  6 3/4 oz Pitted dates
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/8 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Flaked coconut, toasted
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix first 3 ingredients in saucepan. Cook, stirring, until a
  small amount of mixture forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water
  (232-F). Add dates; cook, stirring, until mixture returns to 232-F. Remove
  from heat, and cool to lukewarm (110-F). Add remaining ingredients, except
  coconut, and beat until thick. Shape in 2 or 3 rolls 1 1/2" in diameter.
  Roll in coconut. When firm, cut in 1/2" slices.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
      Title: Coconut Patties
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Coconut
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
      3 tb Cocoa
 
  Combine sugar and cocoa.  Add milk and water.  Boil to soft ball stage (234
  ~ 238 F).  Cool to room temperature.  Add coconut and nuts. Add butter and
  flavoring.  Beat until mixture begins to thicken. Drop on waxed paper in
  small pats. Mildred G. Allison, Watkins Glen, NY.
 
 
      Title: Coconut Potato Drops
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 tb Instant mashed potato
      6 tb Water
      2 tb Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Butter
    1/2 ts Almond extract
      1 lb Confectioners' sugar, sifted
      1 cn Flaked coconut
 
  DIRECTIONS: Using first 4 ingredients, prepare potato as directed on the
  package. Add the butter and almond extract. Gradually beat in
  confectioners' sugar. (Mixture will be thin at first, but thicken later.)
  Beat until mixture will hold its shape. Add a little more sugar, if
  necessary. Stir in coconut, and drop by spoonfuls on waxed paper.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
 
      Title: Coconut Roll
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Thin cream
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Chopped raisins
      2 tb Toasted coconut
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Corn-starch
 
  Boil sugar, corn-starch, cream, butter, and salt to soft ball stage (234 -
  238 F).  Cool to room temperature.  Beat until creamy. Add raisins, nuts,
  coconut, and flavoring.  Continue beating until mixture can be handled.
  Turn onto board dusted with powdered sugar. Knead until smooth and creamy.
  Shape into a roll. Sprinkle with additional toasted coconut. Slice with a
  sharp knife. Mrs. Bert Welsh, Mason, WI.
 
 
      Title: Coconut-Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Corn syrup
      2 c  Sugar
      2 lb Spanish peanuts (raw)
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Soda
    1/2 lb Coconut
 
  Combine water, corn syrup, sugar, peanuts and salt in a heavy 4-quart
  saucepan. Put in the candy thermometer and cook over high heat. Stir
  frequently until temoerature reaches 290 degrees. Remove from heat and add
  the soda. Stir thoroughly, then gradually stir in coconut. Stretch with
  well buttered forks on a well buttered surface such as cookie sheets. To
  stretch, spoon out into piles and gently pull apart.
 
 
      Title: Coffee Bourbon Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
    1/4 c  Maxell House instant coffee
    1/4 c  Bourbon
      1 tb Water
      2 c  Fine vanilla wafer crumbs
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      3 tb Light corn syrup
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
        ds Salt
 
  Dissolve coffee in bourbon and water in a bowl.  Add remaining ingredients
  and mix thorougly.  Roll into balls, using a rounded teaspoon of mixture
  for each.  Store in tightly covered container for several days, then roll
  in additional confectioners sugar.
 
 
      Title: Cooked Fondant
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 20
 
      5 c  Sugar
      1 c  Coffee Rich or Half & Half
      1 c  Cream (no sub!)
      4 tb Margarine or butter
    1/2 ts Cream of Tartar
 
  Combine butter, sugar, Coffee Rich, cream & Cream Of Tartar in a heavy
  saucepan. Stir until sugar is well moistened. Place on high heat. Bring to
  boil then cover mixture for 2-3 minutes (to prevent sugar crystals from
  forming). Uncover & place thermometer in boiling mixture. COOK WITHOUT
  STIRRING. Wipe any crystals from sides of pan. Cook to exactly 236 degrees.
  Immedietely pour out onto a marble slab. When heat is no longer coming from
  the mass of candy...test it with your finger tips or wrist...when the dents
  made with your fingers remain for a little time instead of filling in
  immedietely & candy is luke warm, candy is ready to work. Work fondant with
  candy paddle until it sets up. Allow it to rest 15 minutes, covered. Then
  knead it until perfectly smooth. Like magic, the "crumbs will turn to
  wonderful creamy candy!
    Form into a ball, place on Saran wrap & into a bowl that can be tightly
  sealed.
   This fondant is best if kept a day or so before using, but may be used I
  Hints:   For stiffer fondant, cook 1-2 degrees more. Freezing makes it
  sticky.
  
     Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
      Title: Cornflake Balls
 Categories: Kids, Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Honey
  3 1/2 c  Cornflakes
      1 lg Bowl and a wooden spoon
           Paper plates and a marker
           Sesame seeds or wheat germ
           -or finely ground nuts
 
  This snack is a real treat for children. They can eat it warm or cold.
  
  Help the children measure the peanut butter and honey into a small pot.
  Stir constantly over medium heat until blended. Remove from heat.
  
  Microwave directions: The children can measure the peanut butter and honey
  into a large microwave bowl. Microwave on high for 1 minute. Remove from
  micro. Let the children stir til smooth.
  
  Help the children measure and add 3 1/2 cups cornflakes. They can take
  turns stirring the mixture with a spoon.
  
  If everyone is hungry and can't wait, given them a paper plate and spoon
  and let them eat while its warm.
  
  To shape into balls, chill the dough for 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
  After the dough is stiff, put a portion on each child's plate. They can
  pinch off small pieces, roll them into balls, and them roll the balls in
  sesame seeds, wheat germ, or finely ground nuts.
  
  Store these snacks in the refrigerator on the children's plates.
 
      Title: Crackerjack
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Butter
      3 tb Corn syrup; white
    3/4 ts Baking soda
 
  Put sugar, water, butter and syrup in skillet, boil until it turns brown,
  stirring constantly. Not too brown or it will taste scorched. Remove from
  fire, stire in soda. This makes it browner. Stire and pour over about 5 qts
  of popcorn. Add nuts if desired.
  
  Source: Mrs. Frank Harris, Purity Grange, Licking County, OH
 
 
      Title: Cream-Cheese Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      3 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 ts Heavy cream
      2 c  Confectioners' sugar
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ds Salt
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Servings: 1 pound
  
  DIRECTIONS: Beat cream cheese and cream until smooth. Gradually beat in
  sugar. Add melted chocolate and blend. Stir in vanilla, salt, and chopped
  nuts. Press into buttered 8x4x2" pan and chill. Cut in squares.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
 
      Title: Creamy Mocha Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 c  Cocoa
  3 1/2 c  Icing sugar
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 tb Coffee, very strong
    1/2 c  Pecans, coarsely chopped
 
    Stir together cocoa and icing sugar in large bowl till well blended.
  There should be no lumps. Melt butter over medium heat. Add coffee and beat
  with an electric beater till smooth. Fold in pecans. Turn into wax paper
  lined loaf pan. Smooth top with knife dipped in warm water. Refrigerate
  till set. When set, turn and cut into squares.
  
  My own recipe, honorable mention 1989 Sherway Gardens Chocolympics
 
 
      Title: Creamy Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Evaporated milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 lb Peanut butter
    1/2 lb Marshmallow fluff
      1 tb Butter
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, milk and salt in saucepan. Cook over medium heat until
  mixture reaches soft ball stage. Remove from heat; add peanut butter,
  marshmallow fluff, butter and vanilla. Stir until ingredients are
  thoroughly combined. Pour into large cake pan to cool.
 
      Title: Croquembouche
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  8
 
      1 c  Dark corn syrup
      5    Dozen small cream puffs,
           -custard filled(from the
           -bakery or home made)
    1/4 c  Icing sugar
 
  The Croquembouche pyramid must be assembled quickly, or the syrup used to
  assemble it will harden and have to be reheated.  Therefore, be sure to
  read the recipe through thoroughly before starting to work. And have all
  ingredients near the stove, so you dip the puffs and set them in place
  quickly.
  
  Cut a 9-inch circle from cardboard, and cover with foil.  Set the circle on
  a board near the stove.  Have the filled cream puffs close at hand.
  
  Cook corn syrup in the top of a double boiler over high heat until candy
  thermometer reaches hard-ball stage(240F), or until a small drop of the
  syrup forms a soft ball in coldwater.  Set pan over boiling water.
  
  To build the pyramid, lightly dip the bottom oof a cream puff in syrup and
  set on the edge of the circle, syrup-side down.  Repeat with 9 more puffs,
  forminga ring. For the secong row,arrange a slightly smaller  ring of puffs
  overthe spaces between the puffs in the first row, inclinin g the second
  row slightly inward.  Fill in  the center with more puffs for support.
  
  Continue building the pyramid in decreasing rings, filling in cent er for
  support as needed, until you have completed 8 rows.
  
  Top with one puff,. Sprinkles the Croquembouche lightly with 1/4 cup
  siftedicingsugar. To serve, lift one ortwo puffes at a time off the
  pyramid, starting from the top. Serves 8 - 10.
  
  Note: If syrup starts to thicken before puramidis completed,add a teaspoon
  of water and  stir over low heat.   Do not let syrup burn.
  
  Cream Puffs
  
  1/2  cup butter or margarine 1 cup boiling water 1 cup unsifted all-purpose
  flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 4 whole eggs
 
      Title: Crunchies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  (4Tbs) honey
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4 c  Oatmeal, uncooked
      1 c  Raisins (optional)
 
  Melt shortening.  Add honey and sugar.  Add oatmeal (and raisins) quickly
  before sugar dissolves completely.  Blend well and press into a buttered
  9x13" pan.  Bake at 400 F for 8 - 10 min.  Cut into squares while still
  slightly warm but don't remove from pan until they are firm.
  
  Variation:  Dribble 3/4 c or less of melted chocolate chips over crunchies
  while they are still warm.
  
  From: "The Taming of the C.A.N.D.Y. Monster" by Vicki Lansky.
  
  Courtesy of Theresa Merkling
 
      Title: Cuban Lunch
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 75
 
     12 oz Pkg pure chocolate wafers
     12 oz Pkg peanut butter chips
      7 oz Pkg crushed regular potato
           -chips
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
 
  This sweet treat is excellent for Christmas or large buffets - anytime you
  want to serve a special dessert nibble.
  
  Melt chocolate wafers and peanut butter chips.  Mix in peanuts and potato
  chips.  Spoon or pour into small paper baking cups.  Store in the
  refrigerator.  Makes 75.
  
  Origin:  Homestyles, Canadian Classics Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Dark Chocolate Walnut Bark
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  1
 
  1 1/2 c  Walnut pieces
      2    Bars (8-oz. each) dark
           -chocolate candy, chopped
      2 oz White chocolate
           -confectionary, chopped
           -(from a 3-oz.
           Bar)
 
  Line large cookie sheet with waxed paper. Spread walnuts out in a single
  layer, close together, on the waxed paper; set aside.
  
  Place dark chocolate in a 1 1/2-quart microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on
  medium (50%) 2 minutes; stir. Microwave on medium 30 seconds to 1 minute
  longer, or until chocolate can be stirred smooth and is glossy, stirring
  twice. Immediately pour over walnuts, spreading out to a thin, even layer.
  Let stand until firm.
  
  Place white chocolate in a 1-quart microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on medium
  1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes or until white chocolate can be stirred smooth,
  stirring twice. With the tip of a metal spoon or a pastry bag fitted with a
  small writing tip, drizzle white chocolate over dark in a zig-zag pattern.
  Let stand to set or refrigerate; break into pieces. Store in airtight
  container with waxed paper between layers in cool, dry place. Makes 1 1/4
  pounds.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [1,001 Home Ideas, Feb 1990]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Date Candy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 c  Pitted and chopped dates
    1/2 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped candied cherries
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped marshmallows
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Boil sugar, milk, water, butter, and salt to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).
  Add cherries and dates.  Boil to firm ball stage (245 - 248 F). Add
  marshmallows.  Do not stir.  Cool to room temperature. Add flavoring. Beat
  until thick and creamy. Add nuts. Pour into well-buttered, shallow pan. Cut
  in squares. Mrs. R.I. Craven, Liberty, TX.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Date-Nut Logs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 tb Butter, softened
    1/4 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      3 tb Nonfat dry milk
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
      1 c  Finely cut dates
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Servings: 1 1/4 pounds
  
  DIRECTIONS: Blend butter, corn syrup and vanilla. Add nonfat dry milk,
  salt, sugar and dates. Mix well, and shape in small rolls. Dip each roll in
  nuts. (If nuts don't stick, moisten rolls with corn syrup.)
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Delicious Fudge
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      1 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Milk, Condensed
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Corn Syrup
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Nuts, Chopped
 
  Cut the chocolate in small pieces and cook with the brown and granulated
  sugar, the condensed milk and the corn syrup. Stir until the sugar is
  dissolved. Then cook, stirring occasionally, until the fudge forms a soft
  ball when dropped in cold water. Remove from the fire, add the butter and
  let stand until it is cool. Then beat until it begins to lose its glossy
  appearance. Add the vanilla and the nuts, pour on a greased pan and allow
  to cool. Cut in squares. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old
  Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Divinity and Variations
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
MMMMM--------------------------BASIC DIVINITY-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
      2    Egg whites
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Coarsely chopped nuts

MMMMM-------------------------HOLIDAY DIVINITY------------------------------
    1/4 c  Chopped candied cherries
    1/4 c  Chopped candied pineapple

MMMMM------------------------CHOCOLATE DIVINITY-----------------------------
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 c  Nut halves (instead of
           -chopped nuts)

MMMMM-------------------------GINGER DIVINITY------------------------------
      6 tb Water \ Instead of the
      2 tb Preserved-ginger syrup / 1/2
           -cup water
    1/2 c  Finely diced ginger
 
  Servings: 1 1/2 pounds
  
  DIRECTIONS: In saucepan mix corn syrup, sugar, salt and water. Cook,
  stirring, until sugar is dissolved. Continue cooking, without stirring,
  until a small amount of mixture forms a firm ball when dropped in cold
  water (248-F). Beat egg whites until stiff, but not dry. Pour about half
  the syrup slowly over whites, beating constantly. Cook remainder until a
  small amount forms hard threads in cold water (272-F). Add slowly to first
  mixture, and beat until mixture holds its shape. Add vanilla and nuts; drop
  by dessert-spoonfuls onto waxed paper, or spread in buttered 9x9x2" pan,
  and when firm, cut in squares.
  
  HOLIDAY DIVINITY: Follow above instructions, adding candied cherries and
  pineapple with the nuts.
  
  CHOCOLATE DIVINITY: Follow above instructions, adding chocolate and nuts
  with vanilla after beating; then beat until well blended.
  
  GINGER DIVINITY: Follow above instructions, using the water and ginger
  syrup for the liquid. Add diced ginger with the nuts.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Divinity Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
      2 ea Egg whites
    1/2 c  Corn syrup; light
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Nut meats
 
  Cook sugar, syrup and water to boiling point. Caver and let boil 3 minutes
  without stirring. Remove cover, cook unitl hard ball stage or 255 F. Add
  salt and vanilla to egg whites, beat until still. Pour syrup from a height
  of 1 foot, slowly into whites. When thick, drop by teaspoonful on waxed
  paper, after adding nuts.
  
  Source: Mrs. Wilma J. Short, West Newton Grange, Allen County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Divinity Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 c  White sugar
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    3/4 c  Water
      1 pn Of salt
      1    Egg white
      1 ts Of vanilla and almond
           -flavouring
 
  Cook together until dissolved then uncover and cook to hard ball stage
  (265F.). Add salt and let stand while you beat 1 egg white. Add vanilla and
  almond flavouring if desired. Beat until candy stands in peaks. Drop by
  teaspoon on waxed paper.
  
  From the book "Treasured Mennonite Recipes" by the Mennoinite Community
  Relief Sales Volume 1
  
  AR/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Divinity Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water; hot
    1/2 c  Corn syrup; white
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Nut meats
    1/4 c  Candied cherries
    1/4 c  Candied pineapple
 
  Put sugar, hot water, corn syrup into saucepan, heat slowly to boiling,
  stirring until sugar is dissolved. Wipe down sugar crystals from side of
  pan before syrup starts to boil. When syrup begins to boil, beat egg whites
  with salt until foamy. Pour 2 T. of syrup on egg whites and continue
  beating. Cook syrup to soft ball stage, 234 F. Pout half syrup onto beaten
  egg whites very slowly and continue beating.
  
  Note: Doesn't say what to do with the other half of the syrup.
  
  Source: Plymouth Grange, Ashtabula County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Divinity
 Categories: Candies, Entertain, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light Corn Syrup
    1/2 c  Water
      2 lg Egg Whites At Room Temp.
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
 
  Avoid making Divinity on a humid day; candy will not harden.  In a 2 quart
  saucepan over medium high heat, heat sugar, syrup and water to boiling,
  stirring until sugar is dissolved.  Set candy thermometer in place and
  continue cooking, without stirring until the temperature reaches 248F.
  Meanwhile, in a medium bowl with mixer at high speed, beat egg whites until
  stiff peaks form.  Beating at medium speed, slowly pour half of the syrup
  into whites.  Continue beating while heating other half of syrup to 272F.
  While turning bowl and continuing beating, slowly pour remaining hot syrup
  into mixture (mixture will be stiff).  (Don't scrape saucepan; mixture on
  side may be sugary.)  Add vanilla; beat until mixture holds stiff, glossy
  peaks.  Working quickly, drop by heaping teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper.
  Completely cool before storing.  From: Good Housekeeping Illustrated
  Cookbook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Double Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 cn (14 oz.) sweetened condensed
           -milk
      2 c  (12 oz.) semisweet chocolate
           -chips
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  1.  Butter baking pan, 8 x 8 x 2 inches.  Stir milk and chocolate chips in
  2-quart casserole;  add chocolate.  Microwave uncovered on high (100%) 1
  minute; stir.  Microwave until chocolate is melted and mixture can be
  stirred smooth, about 2 minutes longer.
  
  2.  Stir in vanilla and nuts.  Spread mixture evenly in pan. Refrigerate
  until firm.  Cut into 1-inch squares.
  
  From: Betty Crocker's Microwave Cookbook Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Easter Eggs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/4 lb Butter
      8 oz Cream cheese
           Add:
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Peanut butter or coconut
      4 c  Confectioner's sugar
 
  Soften and mix together butter and cream cheese.
  
  Place in refrigerator to chill.  Form into egg or ball shape.  Dip in
  melted chocolate coating.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Easter Eggs Candies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  5
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
      1 lb Confectioners sugar
      2 tb Water
      1 tb Light corn syrup
      1 tb Butter; softened
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1 pn Cream of tartar
  1 1/3 c  Flaked coconut

MMMMM------------------------CHOCOLATE COATING-----------------------------
      8    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
 
  Combine sugar, water, corn syrup, butter and vanilla. Add the salt, almond
  extract and cream of tartar. This mixture will be crumbly. Add the coconut.
  Shape into eggs (whatever size you want). Melt the chocolate in a double
  boiler over low heat. Cool alittle and then frost the eggs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Easter Mints Kids Can Make
 Categories: Candies, Kids
   Servings:  1
 
    1/3 c  Soft butter
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Flavoring
  3 1/2 c  ( 1 lb ) sifted
           -confectioner's sugar
           Large bowl
           Wooden spoon
           Paper plates
           Pencils
 
  This is a no-cook recipe the children can mix with their hands. Flavor it
  with any of the liquid flavorings in the supermarket, such as strawberry
  and lemon. If you want, you can instead divide it into three portions and
  add a few drops of food coloring to tint it yellow, red, and green. The
  knead a small amount of flavoring into each one. This recipe makes about 1
  1/2 lbs of candy.
  
  Help the children measure all the ingredients into the large bowl. They can
  take turns stirring it with the wooden spoon until it becomes too stiff.
  Then they can knead it with their hands. They should continue kneading
  until the dough is smooth.
  
  Give each child a paper plate and a pencil. Tell them to turn their plates
  OVER and write their names on the Bottom to prevent pencil lead from
  getting on their mints. Help them hold their pencils correctly. Make sure
  they use upper and lower case letters.
  
  Give each child a portion of dough on his or her plate. The children can
  pinch off pieces, roll them into balls, and press them lightly with a fork
  to make a fancy butter mint. Children who cannot roll the candy into balls
  can make snakes, cut the snakes into pieces, and press the pieces with a
  fork. They might eat the pieces with the fork, but that's ok too.
  
  Leave the mints on the plates and refrigerate them for 30 minutes, until
  they become firm. Easter Mints taste even better the second day, if you can
  keep everyone from eating them all on the first day. Cover with plastic
  wrap and keep them in the refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Easy Creamy Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 32
 
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
           -(optional)
     14 oz Can condensed milk
      1 ds Salt
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      6 oz Milk chocolate chips or
           -semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  To 1 c nuts
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  In 2 qt. glass measure, combine marshmallows, milk, and salt. Microcook on
  HIGH 3-4 minutes.  Stir until marshmallows melt and mixture is smooth. Add
  chips and stir until melted.  (If you don't use marshmallows, melt
  chocolate chips in the condensed milk. Add salt.) Stir in nuts and vanilla.
  
  Line 8 or 9 inch square pan with wax paper.  Spread fudge evenly in pan.
  Chill 2 hours, until firm.  Turn on to cutting board, peel off paper and
  cut into squares.
  
  Serves 32
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Easy Milk Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 10
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk, undiluted
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
  1 1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate morsels
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
 
  Butter 8-inch square pan.  In medium saucepan, combine butter, evaporated
  milk, sugar and salt.  Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring
  constantly.  Boil 4 to 5 minutes, stirring constantly; remove from heat.
  Stir in marshmallows, morsels, vanilla and nuts.  Stir vigorously for 1
  minute or until marshmallows melt completely.  Pour into pan.  Cool and cut
  into squares.  Hint: For thicker fudge, use a 7X5-inch loaf pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Easy Toffee Bars
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  1
 
     35    Soda crackers with unsalted
           -tops
      1 c  Butter or regular margarine
      1 c  Brown sugar, packed
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
 
  An absolutely fabulous candy!  Tastes and looks like butter crunch.  And it
  all starts with a little soda cracker. Your friends will never guess the
  basic ingredient.
  
  Lightly grease 15x10x1 inch jelly roll pan.  Line bottom of pan evenly with
  soda crackers.  Combine butter and brown sugar in 2 quart heavy saucepan.
  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a boil.
  Continue cooking 3 more minutes, stirring constantly. Pour mixture evenly
  over crackers. Bake in 375F oven 15 minutes. Remove from oven. Sprinkle
  with chocolate pieces. let stand 5 minutes. Spread melted chocolate over
  crackers.  While still warm, cut between crackers making 35 squares. Chill
  in refrigerator until set. Makes 35 pieces. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice
  Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Elegant Chocolate Log
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Entertain
   Servings:  1
 
  1 1/4 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
    1/4 c  Plus 1 tb sifted flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      5 tb Baking cocoa
      6    Eggs, separated
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
  1 1/4 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Water
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Sugar
     12    Marshmallows, cut up
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted and cooled
      2 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
           Light cream
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Sift together 1-1/4 cup confectioners sugar, flour, salt and cocoa 3 times.
  Set aside.  Beat egg whites with cream of tartar in bowl until stiff peaks
  form, using electric mixer at high speed.  Set aside.  Beat egg yolks in
  another bowl until thick and lemon colored, using electric mixer at high
  speed. Beat in vanilaa and water. Blend in dry ingredients, beating well.
  Fold in beaten egg whites. Spread batter in greased and waxed paper lined
  15x10x1 inch jelly roll pan. Bake in 375 oven 15-20 minutes or until cake
  tests done. Meanwhile, lightly dust a clean dish towel with confectioners
  sugar. Loosen cake around edges with spatula and invert cake on towel. Lift
  off pan and carefully peel off paper. With a sharp knife, cut off crisp
  edges.  Roll up cake gently, from narrow end, by folding edge of cake over
  and then tucking it in towel. Continue rolling cake, using towel as aid.
  Let cake cool in towel on rack. Whip heavy cream in bowl until thickened,
  using electric mixer at high speed. Add sugar, beating until soft peaks
  form. Fold in marshmallows. Unroll cake. Spread with cream mixture. Reroll
  (without towel)  Combine cooled chocolate and 2 cups confectioners sugar in
  bolw.  Add enough light cream to make a frosting of spreading consistency.
  Spread over cake roll. Sprinkle with pecans. Refrigerate until serving
  time.  Makes 10 servings. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: English Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/4 c  Gourmet Golden Syrup
    1/4 c  Water
 
  Combine all ingredients in large saucepan.  Bring to a boil, stirring until
  all dissolved, then boil without stirring until the mixture is dark golden.
  Test by spooning a few drops into a cup of cold water.  The toffee is done
  when it hardens at once into a crisp ball.  Take off heat and pour into a
  flat oiled pan to make a layer about 1/2 inch thick.  When toffee is tepid,
  score into squares, and when cool break with a hammer and store in an
  airtight container.  Makes about 1.5 pounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: English Toffee Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Corn syrup; light brown
    3/4 c  Cream; thin
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Cook, stir until sugar is dissolved. Cook until firm ball in cold water or
  244 F. Add 1 1/2 T. butter and 1/2 t. vanilla. Pour in thin layer on
  greased slab. While warm, mark in squares. Wrap in paper when cold.
  
  Source: Mrs. J. F. Guiler, Noble County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: English Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 18
 
      1 lb Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Chocolate chips melted a bit
           -or-
      1 c  Basic chocolate sauce
    1/2 c  Peanuts; chopped coarsley
 
  Melt your chocolate chips over very low heat or in a double boiler, and
  chop your peanuts up rather fine before you begin the recipe. Then you can
  assemble this layered toffee all at once.
  
  Cut butter into small pieces and place in a heavy skillet with the sugar.
  Cook slowly over medium-high heat, stirring constantly until the butter
  melts and is completely blended into the sugar.
  
  Insert a candy thermometer into the mixtrue, reduce heat and cook for 30
  minutes, sutrring constantly until the mixture is a deep amber color and
  the thermometer registers 285 degrees.
  
  Pour mixture into an ungreased cookie sheet and allow to cool completly.
  Spread melted chocolate chips over the toffee and press the chopped peanuts
  on top.  When the chocolate has hardened, break the toffee into small
  pieces and store them in a tightly covered container.
  
  Yield: 18 oz
  
  SOURCE: CHEAPER AND BETTER ALTERNATIVES TO STOREBOUGHT GOODS BY: NANCY
  BIRNES
  
  FOUND BY: FRAN MCGEE
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: English Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  2
 
      4 c  Sugar
      4 tb Vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Syrup
 
  1. Combine all ingredients in a large saucepan and bring to a boil;
  stirring until all dissolved. 2. Continue to boil without stirring until
  the mixture becomes a dark golden brown. 3. Testing is accomplished by
  spooning a few drops of mixture into a cup of cold water. 4. The toffee is
  complete when it hardens into a crispy ball. 5. Take off heat and pour into
  a flat oiled pan to make a layer about 1/2 inch thick. 6. When toffee is
  tepid, score into squares, and when cool break with a hammer and store in
  an airtight container. 7. Makes approximately 1 1/2 pounds.
     Bob Hogan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: European Cocoa Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  European Style Cocoa
    1/8 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Whole milk
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Line an 8 inch square pan with foil: butter foil.
  
  In a 4 quart saucepan, mix sugar, cocoa and salt.
  
  Stir in milk. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture
  comes to a rolling boil.
  
  Boil, without stirring, to 234 degrees. Remove from heat, add butter and
  vanilla -Do Not Stir!
  
  Cool at room temperature to 110 degrees. Beat with a wooden spoon until
  fudge thickens and looses some of its gloss. Spread quickly into the
  prepared pan. Cool.
  
  Makes about 1 3/4 pounds of fudge.
  
  * reqular cocoa works well, too.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fantasy Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  3
 
    3/4 c  (1-1/2 sticks) Parkway
           -Margarine
      3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 pk (12 oz) Baker's Semi-Sweet
           -Real Chocolate Chips
      1    Jar (7 ounces) Kraft
           -Marshmallow Creme
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Microwave margarine in 4-quart microwave-safe bowl on HIGH (100%) 1 minute
  or until melted. Add sugar and milk; mix well.
  
  Microwave on HIGH 5 minutes or until mixture begins to boil, stirring after
  3 minutes. Mix well; scrape bowl. Continue microwaving on HIGH 5 1/2
  minutes; stir after 3 minutes.
  
  Stir in chips until melted. Add remaining ingredients; mix well. Pour into
  greased 9-inch square pan or 13x9-inch baking pan. Cool at room
  temperature; cut into squares. Makes 3 pounds.
  
  From: Kraft General Foods Holiday Homecoming (1991) Posted by: Sonya
  Whitaker
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fig Squares
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Figs
    1/3 c  Crystallized ginger
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Toasted coconut
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Nuts
 
  Combine figs, nuts, salt, and ginger.  Put through food chopper using
  medium knife.  Add lemon juice.  Knead into a paste on a board dredged with
  powdered sugar.  Roll thin.  Cut in 1-inch squares. Put together in layers
  of three, sprinkling the coconut between the layers. Mrs. R.F.
  Higginbotham, Covington, OK.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Five Pound Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
     12 oz Can evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      1    Jar marshmallow creme
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
     12 oz Milk chocolate bar
      2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Cook sugar, milk, and butter to soft ball stage (234 degrees on candy
  thermometer), stirring constantly.  Take off the heat and add the remaining
  ingredients.  Stir quickly and thoroughly to blend.  Pour into a large
  baking pan or dish (I lightly butter it first).  Cool.  Cut into squares
  and store in refrigerator.
  
  My favorite fudge recipe!!  I prefer it with walnuts instead of pecans and
  I even buy my milk chocolate candy bars with almonds sometimes for a little
  added flavor and crunch!
  
  From:  Jackie Olden's Newsletter
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fondant Mints
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Water
      4 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
      6 ts Corn syrup
      1    Mint flavoring to taste
      1    Coloring as desired
 
  Put water in a saucepan and add sugar and other ingredients in order given
  (left to right). Boil, without stirring, to 236-degrees. Pour onto wet
  platter and cool. Beat with spatula or wooden spoon until thick and white.
  Knead if necessary. Store in covered container at least 12 hours or until
  needed. It will keep for several months without refrigeration. Heat
  seasoned fondant over warm water. Season and color as desired. Pour into
  molds or drop onto waxed paper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fondant Patties
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Tint fondant with any desired food coloring.  Flavor to suit the taste.
  Knead until coloring and flavoring are well blended with fondant. Form into
  patties.  Press nuts, raisins, candied cherries or other fruits in the top.
  If desired, dip into melted chocolate. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fondant
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
           Salt; dash
      1 tb Corn syrup; light
    1/2 c  Cream; heavy
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine all of your ingredients, except vanilla. Place over low flame and
  stir constantly until sugar dissolves and mixture boils. Cover and cook 3
  minutes, remove cover and continue cooking without stirring until it forms
  a soft ball. During cooking wash down sides of pan a few times with a damp
  cloth. Pout fondant  at once on a cold, wet pan. Cool to lukewarm and work
  with a spatula until white and creamy. Knead with hands until smooth. Add
  vanilla and knead until blended. Let stand until cool. Wrap in wax paper
  and put in cold place at least 24 hours before dipping. Dip in melted
  chocolate.
  
  Source: Mrs. Freda Smith, United Grange, Marion County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fondant
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Combine sugar and cream of tartar.  Add water.  Stir until sugar is
  dissolved.  Cover pan and boil 5 minutes, allowing steam to dissolve any
  grains of sugar on sides of pan.  Uncover and boil without stirring to soft
  ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Wipe all crystals from the sides of the pan with
  a damp cloth.  Pour into shallow pan, plate, or onto a marble slab which
  has been rinsed with cold water. Cool to room temperature. Beat only until
  stiff enough to knead.  Knead until smooth.  Place in bowl. Cover with a
  damp cloth or with waxed paper.  Allow to stand 24 hours before using. If
  desired, milk may be substituted for the water. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fondant, Cooked, and Candy Recipes
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  2
 
      3 c  Sugar
  1 1/3 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix first 4 ingredients in large saucepan. Bring to boil,
  stirring. Cover, boil 3 minutes. Remove cover, and cook until a small
  amount of mixture forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water (238-F).
  Wash down sides of pan several times with a pastry brush dipped in cold
  water, using up and down motion. Pour out on ungreased platter. Cool to
  lukewarm (110-F). Add vanilla, and beat until mixture turns cloudy. Gather
  into a ball, and knead with lightly buttered hands until smooth and creamy.
  Put in bowl, cover with damp cloth, and store in cool place until needed.
  
  FONDANT DIPPED ALMONDS: Tint fondant with red and green food coloring. If
  desired, flavor green with wintergreen and red with peppermint. Melt each
  color in top part of double boiler over hot water. Dip rounded end of
  toasted almonds in candy; harden on waxed paper.
  
  FONDANT STUFFED DATES: Color fondant with red and green food coloring, as
  desired. Shape in small rolls, and fill pitted dates.
  
  BONBONS: Using 2/3 of fondant recipe for any one flavor of bonbon, work in
  desired flavoring and coloring a little at a time. Shape in 3/4" balls for
  centers. Bits of nuts, candied or dried fruits, or coconut can be added to
  these centers. Let stand on waxed paper, covered, overnight.
  
  Next day, melt remaining 1/3 of the fondant set aside for this batch in top
  part of metal double boiler over boiling water, adding flavoring and
  coloring to match fondant centers. Remove from heat. Set pan in cold water
  for a moment, and then put over hot (not boiling) water to keep fondant
  warm and soft. With dipping fork, or other fork, dip bonbon centers, one at
  a time, in melted fondant to cover. (Stir after each bonbon is dipped to
  keep crust from forming on top. If this fondant becomes too thick, reheat
  or add a few drops of hot water.) Tip bonbon over onto waxed paper covered
  tray. Decorative circles can be made by holding dipping fork on top of
  bonbon for a moment. Decorate at once with bits of nuts, candied fruits,
  silver shot or colored sugar, as desired. Leftover dipping fondant can be
  dropped on waxed paper to make patties. Store, covered, in cool, dry place.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Foolproof Dark Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      3    (6 ounce) pkg. semi-sweet
           -chocolate chips (3 cups)
      1    (14-ounce) can Eagle Brand
           -sweetened condensed milk
      1 ds Salt
    1/2    To 1 cup chopped nuts
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  FROM:      Irene Wurz
  
  In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt chips with Eagle Brand, and salt.
  
  Remove from heat; stir in nuts and vanilla.  Spread evenly into a wax paper
  lined  8 or 9" square pan.  Chill 2 hours or until firm.  Turn fudge onto
  cutting board and cut into squares.
  
  MICROWAVE instructions:
  
  In 1 quart glass measure, combine chips with Eagle brand and salt.
  
  Cook on 100% power (high) 3 minutes or until chips melt, stirring after
  each 1 1/2 minutes.
  
  Stir in remaining ingredients. Proceed as above.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Foolproof Dark Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      6 oz Pkg semi-sweet chocolate
           Chips (3 cups)
     14 oz Can Eagle Brand condensed
           Milk (not evaporated!)
      1    Dash of salt
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts (to 1 cup)
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt chips with milk and salt. remove
  from heat; stir in nuts and vanilla. Spread evenly into wax paper-lined 8
  or 9-inch square pan. chill 2 hours or until firm. Turn fudge onto cutting
  board; peel off paper and cut into squares. Store loosely covered at room
  temp.
  
  MICROWAVE: In qt glass measure, combine chips with milk and salt. Cook on
  100% (high) for 3 minutes or until chips melt, stirring after each 1 1/2
  minutes. Stir in remaining ingredients. Preceed as above. (This Microwave
  recipe works well in a 750 watt oven, likely needs longer in others - GLH)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Frango Mints
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
     12 oz Chocolate
      1    Peppermint extract
    1/2 c  Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt and cool chocolate.  Cream together margarine, sugar, eggs and
  vanilla.  Add cooled chocolate and a few drops of mint to creamed mixture.
  Pack into 8 inch square pan.  Cool and set and cut in squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: French Nougat
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  White syrup
    1/4 c  Water
           Combine ingredients.  Boil
           -to brittle stage (300 F)

MMMMM------------------------------PART 2-----------------------------------
    1/2 c  Water
      3    Egg whites
      2 tb Cocoa
    1/2 c  Chopped candied cherries
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Coconut
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Part 1:
  
  Combine sugar, cocoa, and water.  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).
  Pour slowly over stiffly beaten egg whites. Beat constantly. Add Part 1,
  and continue to beat until the mixture begins to stiffen. Add flavoring,
  nuts, candied cherries, and coconut. When mixture is firm but still hot,
  rinse your hands in cold water (do not wipe them). Form mixture into a
  loaf.  Roll in yellow coconut.  Place on well-buttered plate. Slice with
  sharp knife. Mrs. J.A. Pinkerton, Portland, OR.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: French Taffy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      5 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Hot water
      1 c  Sweet cream
           Any flavoring desired
 
  Combine sugar and hot water.  Stir until sugar is dissolved. Boil. Add
  cream slowly.  Stir constantly; do not allow sirup to stop boiling. Boil to
  hard ball stage (265 - 270 F).  Add flavoring. Pour into well-buttered pan.
  When cool, pull until it will hold its shape. Form into long bars about 1
  1/2 inches wide. Cut with a sharp, hot knife in 1-inch lengths. Virginia
  Cooper, New Orleans, LA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fresh Coconut Patties
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 20
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Coconut milk and water
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
           Green & red food coloring
      1 c  Grated fresh coconut
           Candied cherries
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix sugar and coconut milk and water in saucepan. Bring to
  boil, and cook until a small amount of mixture forms a soft ball when
  dropped in cold water (240-F). Pour onto a wet platter, and let stand until
  lukewarm. Add vanilla, and beat until thick and creamy. Knead until smooth.
  Divide, and add a few drops of green coloring to half and red coloring to
  other half. Sprinkle coconut on a cookie sheet. Dry in slow oven, 250-F,
  about 15 minutes. Work half of coconut into each mixture. Heat each mixture
  over boiling water until softened; drop from teaspoon on waxed paper, and
  flatten slightly. Put a bit of cherry in the center of each. Let harden.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Frontier Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Entertain, Christmas
   Servings:  5
 
           Jim Vorheis
    1/2 c  Butter
     12 oz Evaporated milk
      4 c  Sugar
     10 oz Large marshmallows
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -chopped
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
     12 oz Milk chocolate, chopped
      1 tb Vanilla
      2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
 
  Makes 5 pounds
  
  In 4-6 quart heavy metal pan, cook butter, evaporated milk, and sugar over
  medium-high heat until sugar is dissolved.  Heat to boiling. Turn heat to
  low, cover and continue boiling for 5 minutes without stirring. Turn heat
  to warm and stir in marshmallows until dissolved. Add each kind of
  chocolate in turn, stirring until melted. Stir in vanilla and nuts. Pour
  into lightly buttered 9x13-inch pan.  Let stand until firm, about 8-10
  hours, before cutting.
  
  Creme de Colorado Cookbook (1987) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Frosted Walnuts
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Walnuts or pecans
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg
 
  Mix sugar, sour cream, and spices.  Bring to a full boil. Continue boiling
  for 5 minutes.  Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. Add nuts and stir
  until mixture sugars.  Pour on wax paper, separate, and let cool
  completely.  Place in an air-tight container. Will keep up to 3 months (if
  no-one knows they exist, otherwise they last about 2 days).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fruit Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 36
 
      1 c  Pitted dates
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      1 c  Macaroon(?) coconut
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Chop dates.  Grind raisins through food chopper using medium blade. Combine
  dates and raisins and mix well.  Add chopped nuts and 3/4 cup of coconut.
  Mix well.  Form into balls and roll in the remaining coconut.  Wrap in wax
  paper.  Chill.  Slice.  Store in a cool place in a covered container. Makes
  36 pieces. VARIATIONS: Dried apples, dates, pineapple, apricots, or other
  fruits of your choice.
  
  Origin:  The Oats, Peas, Beans & Barley Cookbook Shared by: Sharon Stevens
  Aug/91
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fruit Goops
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      5 qt Popped popcorn
      2 c  Sugar
      1    (6 oz) can frozen grape
           -juice concentrate
    3/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ts Vinegar
    1/2 ts Slat
 
  Preheat oven 250.  Place popcorn in a large 4 inch butttred baking pan.
  Keep warm in oven.  Combine all ingredients except popcorn in a large
  saucepan. Bring to a boil. Lower head and cook until mixture reaches 250 on
  a candy thermometer. Mixture will bubble so watch closely to keep it from
  boiling over.Remove popcorn from oven and pour syrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fruit Jellies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 pt Strained fresh raspberry
           -juice
      1 lb Loaf sugar
      1 oz Powdered gelatin
           Colouring if necessary
      2 tb Cold water
     10    Drops lemon juice
 
  Raspberry Jellies Prepare raspberry juice by crushing the fruit, warming it
  in a bowl over hot water until the juice flows freely and then straining
  through muslin. Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Dissolve the sugar in
  the juice and boil up to 240 F or the soft ball stage. Add the lemon juice
  and gelatine. Re-heat to 240 F and pour into a tin previously rinsed in
  cold water.  If the colour is pale add a few drops of cochineal before the
  end, but fresh fruit should give a brilliant colour. When set, loosen the
  sides with a hot knife and stand the pan on a cloth wrung out of boiling
  water.  Turn the jelly out on to a board.  Cut into cubes and roll in very
  fine confectioner's sugar.  Stand the sweets in a warm place overnight so
  that the sugar crystals adhers. Blackcurrant Jujubes 1/2 pint pure strained
  blackcurrant syrup 1 oz granulated sugar 1 tablespoon pure glycerine 6
  tablespoon glucose 1 oz powdered gelatine Soften the gelatine in a little
  water.  Dissolve the sugar and glucose in the juice - very slowly, over
  gentle heat.  Add glycerine and bring to boiling point. Remove from heat,
  add gelatine and stir until dissolved. Re-heat but do not boil. Rinse a 6"
  sandwich tin with cold water; pour the jelly mixture in. Proceed as in
  second paragraph of directions for Raspberry Jellies. This is a very good
  sweet for irritated throats. Fruit Jellies All juicy fruits in season make
  delicious sweets.  Proceed as for Raspberry Jellies, using colouring when
  necessary to enhance the natural tint. Redcurrants, gooseberries - both
  green and red - blackberries, hips and pineapples are just a few to be
  tried.  Fresh pineapple must be well cooked if used with gelatine, as it
  contains a natural digestant which dissolves gelatine. Two methods of
  Crystallising: CRYSTALLISING CANDIED FRUIT (This is the chapter that the
  author said to use for crystallising the jellies. I assume where it says
  fruit you would substitute jellies.) A sparkling finish is much sought
  after in this class of sugar work, so here are two recipes-one very simple,
  the other correct and of lasting quality. SIMPLE CRYSTALLISING Dip each
  fruit very quickly into boiling water-just in and out-drain it on
  blotting-paper or butter muslin.  Have ready sufficient sieved granulated
  sugar spread upon a sheet of paper to accommodate the fruits. Roll them
  gently about in the sugar until completely coated.  Leave in a dry, warm
  situation for some hours to reduce any moisture.  They will have a
  satisfying appearance, glistening in the light. ADVANCED CRYSTALLISING A
  crystallising tray is much to be desired for this purpose, but to
  improvise, a baking tray, deep and able to accommodate two wire cake racks
  on top of each other, will serve very well.  Carefully measure how much
  liquid will be required to cover the fruits when they rest in the tin.
  Place one rack in the baking tin, arrange the fruits upon it so that they
  do not touch each other or the side of the pan.  Place the second rack feet
  upwards upon the fruits, holding them gently in place. Cut a piece of
  greaseproof paper the exact size of the interior of your saucepan. Fold it
  across and across, then nip the centre point out leaving a hole about 1" in
  diameter. Make a syrup by dissolving 2 pounds of granulated sugar in 1 pint
  (20 ounces) of water. This is your basic recipe- increase it
  proportionately if the amount will not cover the fruits in the tin. They
  must be entirely immersed. Bring the syrup to a boil and strain it through
  muslin wrung out in hot water. Return the syrup to the saucepan, bringing
  it up rapidly to 220-225 F, remembering that the higher temperature gives
  larger crystals, and is good for imposing fruits, while 220 F gives finer
  crystals suitable for cherries, grapes and nuts. Put the pan where it won't
  be jarred in the slighest degree, covering the actural syrup with the
  prepared circle of paper. Steam will escape through the central hole.
  Agitation of the pan will result in a "grainy" syrup, so tread warily. When
  slightly cool-about 15 minutes-tilt the saucepan so that the syrup flows
  gently around and over the fruits held down by the wire cake rack. Cover
  with a cloth and leave for at least 12 hours. Then, if you have a
  crystallising tray, draw off the liquid.  Otherwise, gently lift your tray
  of fruits from the baking tin.  In eigher case place the fruits in a warm
  cupboard to thoroughly dry off once more. They should be covered with
  shimmering crystals of a size to suit your taste, according to the original
  temperature of the syrup. You will be left with a quantity of syrup which
  cannot be used again for crystallising. It can, however be used to make
  delicious toffee or to sweeten stewed fruits. Used with apples in lieu of
  sugar, it gives a unique flavour to an Apple Cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fudge a la Louise
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      4 c  Sugar
      3    Squares dark baking
           -chocolate
  1 1/3 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter, plus extra for
           -greasing platters
      1 c  Chopped nuts
  1 1/3 ts Vanilla
 
  In a heavy saucepan mix together the sugar, chocolate, and milk. Place the
  pan over high heat and stir constantly until the choclate is melted and the
  sugar is dissolved. Bring to a full boil, and lower the heat so the candy
  continues to boil gently, not vigorously. Stir no more. Put a candy
  thermometer into the center of the mixture and cook until the temperature
  reaches exactly 232 F. Meanwhile, butter a large platter (turkey size) and
  a flat pan about 11 by 13 inches. When the fudge reaches 232 F., pour it
  into the readied platter - do not scrape the pan, but let it drip out. Dot
  with 2 tablespoons butter and let the mixture cool until the platter feels
  cool underneath. Add vanilla. Take a large slotted spoon and start to stir
  the liquidy mixture - it will take about 15 or 20 minutes. You will see a
  steady change from dark to light color, from glossy to dull, from liquid to
  solid. When the fudge begins to get dull, add the nuts and mix in
  thoroughly. Put fudge into the large buttered pan and press into shape with
  the flat of your palms. Cut into squares; store in airtight container if
  there's any left.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [Yankee Magazine - June 1981]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 20
 
      3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Margarine
    2/3 c  Evaporated Milk
     12 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
      7 oz Marshmallow Creme
      1 c  Nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, margarine, and milk in heavy 2.5qt saucepan; bring to full
  rolling bowl, stirring constantly.  Continue boiling 5 min over medium heat
  or until candy thermometer reaches 234f stirring constantly to prevent
  scorching.  Remove from heat; stir in chips until melted.  Add marshmallow
  creme, nuts and vanilla; beat until well blended.  Pour into greased 9x13"
  pan.  Cool at room temperature, cut into squares. Makes approx 3lb.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      5 c  Sugar
      1 lg Can evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Large pack chocolate chips
     12 oz Jar marshmallow creme
      2 c  Nuts
 
  Boil sugar, milk, butter and vanilla 10 minutes, stirring constantly.
  Remove from heat; stir in chocolate chips and marshmallow creme; stir until
  marshmallow creme and chocolate chips are melted. Pour into a 9 x 12 inch
  buttered pan. Let cool and mark into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: George Bush Pralines
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Pecans
 
  Mix sugar and milk in large microwave-safe dish.  Stir until sugar
  dissolves.  Add pecans.  Cover with plastic wrap, making slits in the
  plastic to allow steam to escape.  Cook in microwave for 6 minutes. Stir
  and return to microwave for 3 to 4 minutes.  Candy should register 234
  degrees on candy thermometer.  Beat until thick. Drop by spoonfuls onto wax
  paper.  Let it become firm before removing from paper.  Makes 24.
  
  From: Melba's Swap Shop; Daily Oklahoman; Dec. 9, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Giant Chocolate Kiss -- Microwave (Joann Pierce)
 Categories: Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/2 c  Butter (no imitation)
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts (optional)
 
  Combine sugar, cocoa, butter, and milk in a 2 qt. casserole. Microwave on
  HIGH 2 minutes.  Add vanilla and walnuts.  Stir, pour into a generously
  buttered large funnel (rubber band a piece of foil over spout of funnel)
  making sure you fill the spout end. Place funnel in a tumbler and set in
  freezer or frig until set. When set carefully unmold and wrap with foil
  creating a big "kiss". You can add a streamer with your own sentiments if
  desired.
  
  NOTE:  If desired, you can make smaller kisses by using the small funnels
  which are used to fill perfume bottles.  These make the regular "kiss" size
  chocolates.  These funnels can be purchased in many cosmetic departments at
  variety stores, department stores and gadget stores.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Glace Nuts and Fruits
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Combine ingredients.  Heat to boiling.  Stir until sugar is dissolved. Wipe
  all grains of sugar from sides of saucepan with a damp cloth. Boil without
  stirring to the hard crack stage (285 - 290 F). Carefully remove all grains
  of sugar from sides of saucepan. Remove saucepan from fire. Set in pan of
  cold water to stop boiling instantly. Remove from cold water and set in pan
  of hot water.  Place each piece of fruit or nuts on a fork. Dip into sirup.
  Drain.  Place at once on waxed paper. When sirup becomes too thick, reheat
  by placing over hot water. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Golden Popcorn Patties
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Syrup; light
      1 c  Water; hot
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Boil to soft ball stage. Add 1 t. vanilla, 1 t. lemon juice. Pour over 5
  qts of popcorn, heated with 1 c. peanuts or 1 c. Walnut meats. Cover wiht
  hot syrup. Mix and spread. The cut into squares.
  
  Source: Mrs. C. W. Harding, Powler Grange, Trumbull County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Graham Cracker Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
     10    Large marshmallows
     16    Graham crackers (crushed)
      1 c  Nuts (chopped)
 
  Boil sugar, milk and butter for 10 minutes. Add marshmallows; beat until
  dissolved. Add graham crackers; stir well. Add nuts; mix. Drop on waxed
  paper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Graham-Almond Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     12    Double graham crackers
      1 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    2 1/2 oz pk sliced almonds
 
  Line jelly roll pan with foil.  Place single layer of graham crackers on
  foil.  Boil butter and sugar together for 2 minutes, stirring constantly.
  Pour over graham crackers.  Sprinkle with almonds.  Bake at 350 degrees for
  10 minutes.  Lift foil from pan, cool, and break into pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Gramp's Microwave Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  White Karo syrup
      2 c  Peanuts
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Soda
    1/8 ts Salt; optional
 
   Combine sugar and syrup in a quart microwave container and microwave on
  high for five minutes.
   Remove from microwave and stir in peanuts.
   Microwave on high for two minutes; stir and microwave for two minutes;
  stir and microwave for one minute.
   Remove from microwave. Stir in margarine, vanilla, salt and soda.
   Pour onto a buttered cookie sheet and let cool. When hardened, break into
  pieces.
   Recipe from my father, Sam Criswell, who formatted this for Meal-Master.
  
     Joyce Burton, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Grand Marnier Nanaimo Bars
 Categories: Canadian, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Graham wafer crumbs
      1 c  Coconut, unsweetened, flaked
    1/2 c  Pecans; toasted, chopped
    2/3 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Cocoa powder; unsweetened
           -sifted
    1/4 c  Sugar, granulated
      1    Egg; beaten

MMMMM-----------------------GRAND MARNIER LAYER----------------------------
      2 c  Icing Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter; softened
    1/4 c  Grand Marnier;or orange
           -liqueur
      1 tb Orange rind; coarsely grated

MMMMM------------------------CHOCOLATE TOPPING-----------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate; melted
 
  In bowl, stir together crumbs, coconut and pecans. In small saucepan,
  gently heat butter, cocoa and sugar until butter melts. Remove from heat;
  whisk in egg. Blend into crumb mixture. Press into greased 9 inch square
  cake pan. Bake in 350F oven for 10 minutes. Let cool on rack.
  
  Grand Marnier Layer: In bowl, place half of icing sugar with butter, mix in
  half of the icing sugar with butter; mix in Grand Marnier, remaining icing
  sugar and orange rind. Spread over base.
  
  Chocolate Topping: Stir butter into chocolate until melted; spread evenly
  over Grand Marnier layer. Let cool for 20 minutes in refrigerator; cut into
  bars. (Bars can be covered, refrigerated up to 2 weeks, or frozen up to 2
  months. Let soften slightly before serving.
  
  VARIATION: CLASSIC NANAIMO BARS Make base and Chocolate Topping as above.
  In layer, substitute milk  for Grand Marnier; add 1/2 tsp vanilla.
  Substitute 2 tsp grated lemon rind for orange juice.
  
  SOURCE:_Canadian Living's Desserts_ by Elizabeth Baird posted by Anne
  MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Grandma Ruby's Fabulous Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      3 pk Chocolate chips
    1/2 lb Butter or margarine
     10 oz Miniature marshmallows (1
           -package)
      2 c  Chopped nuts
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 lg Can evaporated milk
      1 tb Vanilla
 
  Combine chocolate chips, butter, marshmallows and nuts.  Blend sugar with
  evaporated milk and cook at a rolling boil for 6 minutes.  Remove from heat
  and add vanilla.  Pour immediately into bowl with first four ingredients
  and stir until well-blended. Pour into buttered pans and let stand 24 hours
  in cool place. Makes five pounds.
  
  From the files of Grandma Ruby Williams
  
  Date help: Famous recipes for divinity, penoche, fudge, aplets and all the
  holiday favorites are collected together on our Christmas Nuts and Candies
  bulletin.  To obtain this four-page leaflet, send 3 cents and a
  self-addressed envelope to Nancy Morris, Oregonian Hostess House, The
  Oregonian, 1320 S. W. Broadway, Portland 1, Or.
  
  So, when were 3 cent stamps used?  And does anyone know the relevance of
  "Portland 1"?  No zip code was given, either.  Part of a Green Trading
  Stamps ad is here, and bits of what seems to be a society section...this is
  really interesting!! At least to me....I hope I'm not the only one??
  
  Valerie Whittle
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Gumdrops (Jim Vorheis)
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 tb Gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Boiling water
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Combine sugar and boiling water. Boil 5
  minutes.  Add gelatin.  Stir until dissolved.  Boil slowly 15 minutes.
  Divide into 3 portions.  Flavor each portion, and tint with any desired
  food coloring.  Pour into shallow pans which have been dipped in cold
  water.  Let stand overnigh.  Turn out and cut in squares.  Roll in powdered
  or granulated sugar. Let stand until firm. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Gumdrops
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 tb Gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Boiling water
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Combine sugar and boiling water. Boil 5
  minutes.  Add gelatin.  Stir until dissolved.  Boil slowly 15 minutes.
  Divide into 3 portions.  Flavor each portion, and tint with any desired
  food coloring.  Pour into shallow pans which have been dipped in cold
  water.  Let stand overnight.  Turn out and cut in squares. Roll in powdered
  or granulated sugar. Let stand until firm. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Halloween Apples on a Stick
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     12 sm Red eating apples
     12    Wooden skewere
      3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Light corn syrup
      1 c  Water
           Few drops oil of cloves
           Red food coloring or:
     12    Red cinnamon candies
 
  Wash apples in hot water and dry. Insert a skewer in blossom end of each
  apple. In a saucepan mix sugar, corn syrup, and water. Cook over direct
  heat, stirring, until sugar dissolves. Add oil of cloves and a little
  coloring. Continue cooking, without stirring, until a small amount of
  mixture forms a hard piece that cracks when dropped into cold water (290 F.
  on a candy thermometer). Set pan over boiling water. Dip each apple into
  syrup, remove, and whirl apple until syrup covers it smoothly. Stand
  apples, skewer side up, on tray or plate to cool and harden.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [Woman's Day Encyclopedia of Cookery - Vol. 1]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Halvah
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
      1 c  Sesame Seeds
      2 tb Honey
      1 ts Vanilla (Optional)
      1 tb Cocoa or Carob Powder
           - (Optional)
 
  Grind sesame seeds past meal stage into a nut butter. Scrape out into a
  bowl  and dribble in the honey. Mix well until you get one sticky mass. For
  a "chocolate" halvah, mix in cocoa (or carob) powder - dont mix will; allow
  it to become marbled. For more vanilla flavor, add 1 teaspoon of vanilla
  with the honey.
  
  Line a small (about 4x3 inches) box with waxed paper and press in the
  mixture. Put in the refrigerator to chill for an hour or so, take out, and
  slice into cubes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hard Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
MMMMM-------------------STIR TOGETHER BEFORE HEATING------------------------
      2 c  Cane sugar
    2/3 c  Light Karo
    3/4 c  Water
      1 ts Oil flavor* & color
      1 ts Or more citric acid**
 
  Have color/flavor/citric acid ready when finished cooking! *More or less,
  some flavors are stronger than others. **Put citric acid in fruit-flavored
  candies for tartness. TEST YOUR THERMOMETER EVERY DAY! To test: Place it in
  cold water & bring to boil. If water boils at- say 210 instead of 212,
  reduce cooking time 2 degrees. ***I use a TAYLOR thermometer. Wilton sells
  them now. Spray *PAM in molds & on surface. Not too much & only once per
  session. USE A THIN PAN, NOT HEAVY! Candy must set a few minutes in the pan
  & the temp will rise, burning the candy in a thick pan. Bring mixture to
  boil. Put lid on for 3 minutes <to wash down sugar crystals>, add
  thermometer & DON'T STIR. When therm. reaches 285-290D. remove pot from
  stove.Wait for temp. to lower below 260^ before adding color/flavor/citric
  acid. <Will cook flavor out if too hot.> Cover pan after adding citric acid
  so it won't fade the taste. I add about 2 ts citric acid.
        DON'T STIR!  Use the tiny viles of Lorann oils. Avail. in cake supply
  shop or drug store.
   I pour the cooked candy into a GUTTMAN candy funnel <holds entire recipe.>
  Thats the quickest way to get it in molds befor it cools & hardens. *Of
  course, spray funnel! I pour some into molds & the rest onto my marble
  slab. The part on the slab: I roll it into a long cylinder & cut into
  "pillows" w/scissors. Dust finished candies with powdered sugar so they
  won't "melt" together. There is one very nice sucker mold. It is a white
  ring w/ a slit for the stick. <Don't spray stick.> All you do is spray
  mold, add stick, fill w/candy, cool & remove easily Comes in 2-3 sizes,
  round or heart-shaped. I beleive it is Guttman Brand & available here at
  Sugarcraft. About 2 dz in a pack. This is my kids favorite Christmas candy.
  You will want to make several flavors. Experiment on how-much flavor. All
  vary. *Don't add too much on the mints. Takes more on the
  cherry/strawberry/lemon/orange, etc. There are at least 50 oil flavors
  available to choose from! Shared by Dolores McCann, Hamilton OH
  
    Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hard Tack Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Corn syrup
      1 c  Water
    3/4 ts Food coloring
    3/4 ts Desired flavored oil extract
 
  Mix sugar, syrup and water in saucepan. Stir until sugar is dissolved;
  continue to cook to 300-degrees. Remove from heat. Add coloring and
  flavoring; stir. Pour into 8 x 11-inch buttered pan. Cut into squares as
  candy begins to set.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hawaiian Bon Bons
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      8 oz White chocolate, cut up
      1 c  Unsalted macadamia nuts
    1/2 c  Flaked coconut
      1 ts Grated orange zest
           -(optional)
 
  In a 1-quart glass bowl, heat white chocolate in a microwave oven on medium
  for 2 minutes; stir. Return to microwave and heat on medium 1 1/2 to 2
  minutes longer, or until melted and smooth when stirred.
  
  Stir in nuts, coconut, and orange zest. Carefully spoon into 25 (1 1/2
  inch) paper bon bon cups, filling to top. Let stand at room temperature, or
  refrigerate 1 hour or longer, until firm. Store, well wrapped, in
  refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hazelnut Praline
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      2 tb Chopped toasted hazelnuts
 
  In small saucepan heat sugar over med heat without stirring but shaking pan
  occas for 3 mins oruntil sugar has melted and is golden. Sprinkle nuts onto
  buttered plate andpour syrup over. Let cool until hardened; break into
  pces. Process in food processor until finely ground or place in heavy
  plastic bag and crush with rolling pin.
  
  Take note here I even put a capital on the T in Tbsp didn't know the
  correct procedure before it was mentioned. Hey,hey for me!!!!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Heavenly Hash
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Blanched and roasted almonds
      2 tb Marshmallow cream
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      4 tb Grated unsweetened chocolate
     24    Marshmallows
      1 c  Cream
 
  Combine chocolate and sugar.  Add cream, and butter.  Boil to soft ball
  stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire.  Add marshmallow cream, nuts, and
  flavoring.  Beat until mixture begins to thicken. Place marshmallows on
  well-buttered dish evenly. Pour mixture over them. Let cool, cut in squares
  with a sharp knife. Virginia Cooper, New Orleans, LA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hints for Using a Candy Thermometer
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
MMMMM---------------------CANDY CLASS, SUGARCRAFT--------------------------
 
  ...Learn all the secrets of really GREAT candy making! *The first thing
  that should be done each day, before you start, is to TEST YOUR
  THERMOMETER! To do: immerse therm. in cold water. Bring to a boil.
     At sea level water boils at 212 degrees <on a sunny day.> If your water
  boils at 210 degrees, you should reduce the cooking time by 2 degrees. Most
  of the time, water boils here about 208 d. Try not to cook candies on a
  rainy day. The barometric pressure, when the air is heavy, holds the
  mercury in your thermometer down. "Make candy when the sun shines," motto
  of a good candy maker. *I recommend a TAYLOR or WILTON thermometer. Use a
  thin (good quality) pan for candies that MUST STAY IN THE PAN for any
  length of time for cooling. If you leave the thermometer in the pan, you
  may notice the temp. rising even after the candy is removed fro the stove.
  Using a heavy pan, your candy will burn, in this case. Use a HEAVY PAN for
  fudges, fondants, etc., that are to be dumped immediately. Dolores McCann,
  OH-- teacher.
  
     Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hoarhound Candy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/3 ts Pressed hoarhound
  1 1/4 c  Boiling water
    1/3 c  White corn sirup
      2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Pour water over hoarhound.  Allow to stand 10 minutes.  Strain. Combine
  sugar, salt, sirup, and water from hoarhound.  Boil to soft crack stage
  (275 - 280 F).  Pour in thin sheet onto well-buttered baking sheet. Mark
  into squares before candy hardens. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Holiday Mints
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  4
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Peppermint flavoring
      1    Food coloring
    1/2 ts Wintergreen flavoring
 
  Place sugar, water, corn syrup and cream of tartar in saucepan. Boil to
  soft ball stage. Remove from heat. Divide into two equal parts. Add
  peppermint flavoring to one part witha few drops of green food coloring. To
  remaining half, add wintergreen with a few frops of red food coloring. Beat
  each portion until creamy. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper. If candy
  becomes too hard to handle, place in a pan of hot water to soften. To make
  licorice flavored mints, add 1/4 teaspoon anise and a few drops of yellow
  food coloring or leave white. Yield: 4 dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Holiday Orange Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
      1 pk Vanilla wafers (crushed)
    3/4 c  Coconut (grated)
    3/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Frozen orange juice *
 
  * Undiluted Mix ingredients together; roll into balls the size of walnuts.
  Yield: 24 pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Holiday Rum Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  4
 
  3 1/2 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners sugar, divided
      1 c  Finely chopped peacans
    1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/3 c  Light or dark rum (I split
           -this with Amaretto)
    1/3 c  Karo Light Corn Syrup
    1/3 c  Fine chopped Maraschino
           -cherries
 
  Mix crumbs with 1 cup of the confectioners sugar, pecans and cocoa and
  cherries.  Stir in rum and corn syrup.
  
  (I like to use a fork at this point to help in stirring the mixture) Shape
  into 1-inch balls.  Roll balls on remaining sugar. Store in tightly covered
  container.
  
  Refrigerate. Makes about 4 1/2 dozen.
  
  The ladies really like this one since it isn't overpowering.
  
  You're welcome in advance.....Ed
  
  Hint:  Make them about a week before needed. Bring back to room temp.
  before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Bars
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Mixed nuts
    1/4 c  Honey
 
  Grind raisins and nuts.  Mix with honey and press into sheet 1/2 inch
  thick.  Cover, and place weight on top for 24 hours.  Cut in bars. Roll in
  white or colored coconut. Mrs. Edna B. Finley, Oroville, WA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Drops
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Strained honey
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Baking soda
           Few grains salt
 
  Heat honey to boiling.  Add baking soda, butter, lemon juice, and salt.
  Boil to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F).  Pour into well-buttered pan. Cool.
  Pull until white and porous.  Cut in 1 inch pieces. Iva C. Hamilton,
  Fremont, OH.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/4 c  Honey
 
  Dissolve sugar in milk and honey.  Add grated chocolate, butter, and salt.
  Stir until well blended.  Cover until boiling point is reached. Boil to
  soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Cool to room temperature. Add flavoring.
  Beat until mixture is thick, creamy, and will hold its shape when dropped
  from a teaspoon. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Mints
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Warm honey
  2 3/4 c  Powdered milk (non-instant)
      4    Drops oil of peppermint
           Green food coloring
 
  Mix ingredients and knead until all milk is absorbed.  Pull like
  taffy,stretch, cut.
  
  Origin: Homemaking Booklet, Mormon Church, 1978 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Nougat
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 20
 
      1 c  Hazelnuts
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    3/4 c  Honey
      1    Egg white
 
  Toast hazelnuts in moderate oven on oven tray for 10 minutes. While nuts
  are warm, rub off skins using a clean tea-towel.
  
  Place sugar and water in small saucepan, stir over low heat until sugar is
  dissolved. Cook syrup, without stirring, until it reaches 140 degrees C
  when tested with a sweets thermometer or until syrup reaches soft crack
  stage. Stir honey into syrup and return to the boil until temperature is
  140 degrees when tested with a sweets thermometer or until syrup reaches
  soft crack stage. Beat egg white until stiff peaks form, continue to beat
  egg white while adding the hot syrup in a thin stream. Beat mixture
  constantly until it thickens and becomes stiff. Fold through hazelnuts,
  pour into lightly greased 18 cm square pan. Allow to cool and set
  overnight. Cut into bars using a wet knife. Wrap each piece of nougat in
  cellophane; refrigerate until required.
  
  Makes about 20.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      4 c  Sugar
      2    Egg whites
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Boil 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup water to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Pour
  slowly over stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly until stiff. Boil
  together 3 cups sugar, honey, peanut butter, and 1/2 cup water to soft ball
  stage (234 - 238 F). Slowly add to first mixture. Beat constantly until the
  mixture will hold its shape when dropped from a teaspoon. Add nuts and
  flavoring.  Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper. Mrs. L.H. Frey, Elgin,
  NE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Honey Taffy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Strained honey
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
           Few grains salt
 
  Boil honey, salt, and sugar to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F). Add butter.
  Pour into well-buttered pan.  Cool.  Pull until white and porous. Cut in
  1-inch pieces. Hazel Anderson, Meeker, CO.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Horehound Drops
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
           Karen Mintzias
      1 c  Fresh horehound leaves
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Corn syrup or honey
 
  Put the horehound in a small nonreactive sauce pan and add the water. Bring
  to a boil and simmer, covered, or 20 minutes.  Allow to cool, then remove
  horehound and squeeze out all the liquid.  Add the sugar and corn syrup or
  honey to the pan, stir with a wooden spoon while bringing to a boil, then
  turn heat down to a gentle simmer.  If bubbles threaten to overflow the
  pan, reduce heat slightly and stir.
  
  Boil to the hard-crack stage.  If you have a candy thermometer, this is in
  the range of 330 F, but even so you'll need to test often toward the end of
  cooking to get the hardness right.  Keep a shallow cup of cold water
  nearby.  Stir the liquid occasionally, and watch how it falls from the
  spoon.  When it forms a thread, begin testing for hardness by allowing a
  drop of the mixture to fall into the cup of cold water.  Don't trust your
  fingers to examine the now-hardened drop in the cup; bite it.  If it's at
  all gooey or sticks to your teeth, keep cooking.  When it's hard enough to
  crack when you bite it, remove the pan from heat immediately.
  
  If the mixture crystallizes, just add a cup of water and an extra
  tablespoon of corn syrup or honey to the pan, scrape all the crystalline
  chunks into it, and begin again.
  
  Lightly butter a candy mold, cookie sheet, or other heatproof baking pan,
  and pour in the hot mixture.  If you're using a flat-bottomed pan, score
  the surface of the candy after it has cooled enough to become firm.  This
  will help in breaking it apart, which should be done as soon as the candy
  can be handled.
  
  After individual "drops" are formed, sift granulated sugar or powdered
  sugar over them to keep them from sticking together.  Store in a
  moisture-proof container.
  
  Source: The Herb Companion - February/March 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Horehound Candy - For Colds
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Best New Orleans sugar
    1/2 c  Horehound tea; strong
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Boil until crisp in cold water. Pour into buttered plates and when almost
  cold cut in squares. If white or light brown sugar is used, recipe makes a
  very good candy and not so strong.
  
  Source: Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Hot Cinnamon Candy
 Categories: Candies, Hot
   Servings:  6
 
  3 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  White Karo Syrup
      1 c  Boiling Water
           Powdered Sugar(how ever much
           -it takes)
      1 ts Red Food Coloring(can also
           -use other colors)
      1    + Tsp Cinnamin Oil(not
           -extract)if you like it
           -hotter,
 
  This is similar to Fire Stix
  
  use more, but be warned, it doesn't take much
  
  1.  Sprinkle a liberal layer of powdered sugar onto 2 cookie sheets, (cover
  well to keep candy from sticking)
  
  2.  Cook sugar, Karo and water to 290 F.
  
  3.  Add cinnamon oil and food color.  Be VERY careful of the fumes. MIX
  WELL and pour evenly(and slowly) over sugared pans.  Spread candy
  carefully.  WORK QUICKLY.  Allow to cool.  Sprinkle powdered sugar over top
  of candy.  Crack into pieces and enjoy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Indoor S'mores
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 48
 
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
      2 tb Butter or margarine
 11 1/2 oz Nestle milk chocolate
           -morsels
      1 ts Vanilla
     10 oz Golden Grahams cereal (about
           -8 cups)
      3 c  Miniature marshmallows
 
  Makes 48 squares
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Grease a 13x9x2" rectangular pan. Heat corn syrup, butter and chocolate
  morsels to boiling in 3-quart saucepan, stirring constantly; remove from
  heat. Stir in vanilla. Pour over cereal in large mixing bowl; toss quickly
  until completely coated with chocolate. Fold in marshmallows, 1 cup at a
  time. Press mixture evenly in pan with piece of waxed paper. Let stand
  until firm, at least 1 hour. Cut into 1-1/2 inch squares. Makes 48 squares.
  
  From Golden Grahams Cereal box
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Irish Creme Fudge (Microwave)
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 36
 
      1 sm Potato (about 5 ounces)
      3 tb Irish Creme liqueur
      2    Squares (2 oz) unsweetened
           -chocolate
      3 tb Margarine/butter
      1 lb Powdered sugar, unsifted
           -(about 3-1/4 cups)
     36    Walnut pieces
 
  Fudge gets texture from potato: potatoes cooked in the microwave oven give
  this fudge its unbelievably creamy, fudgey texture.  The mellow flavor
  comes from Irish Crem liqueur, used in both the fudge and the icing. Use a
  pastry bag to pipe the icing or a spoon to drizzle it onto the fudge. The
  added bonux is that this fudge is low in fat.
  
  Designer Icing (recipe follows)
  
  Line an 8x8x2-inch pan with foil. extending foil over the edges of the pan.
  Butter foil; set the pan aside.  Prick potato 2 or 3 times witha fork. Cook
  on 100% power (High) for 4-5 minute sor until tender, turning over once.
  Cool and peel.  Mash potato (you should have 1/3 cup).  Add liqueur, stir
  until smooth.  Set aside.
  
  In a 2-quart microwave-save casserole combine chocolate and margarine;
  cook, uncovered, on High for 1-2 minutes or until almost melted, stirring
  once.  Stir until smooth.
  
  Stir potato mixture into chocolate mixture.  Slowly stir in powdered sugar.
  Stir or knead until smooth.  Press into the foil-lined pan. Score into
  thirty-six 1-1/4-inch squares.  Press a walnut piece into each square.
  Cover and chill until firm.  Holding foil at edges, remove the fudge from
  the pan; cut into squares.  Drizzle Designer icing over fudge.
  
  ~=>Designer Icing In a small microwave-save bowl, cook 1 Tbsp
  margarine/butter on High for 45 seconds or until melted. Beat in 1/3 cup
  sifted powdered sugar and enough Irish Creme liqueur (1-2 Tbsp) to ake an
  icing of piping or drizzling consistency.
  
  Makes 36 pieces.
  
  Per serving: 91 calories, .5 gm protein, 15.7 gm carbohydrate, 3.1 gm fat,
  0 mg cholesterol, 15.7 mg sodium.  Calories from fat: 30 percent.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Ivinity
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Corn sirup
      2    Egg whites
      1 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 c  Water
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Combine sugar, sirup, water, salt, and cream of tartar.  Cover and boil 5
  minutes.  Uncover.  Wipe sides of pan with damp cloth. Boil without
  stirring to firm ball stage (245 - 248 F).  Remove from fire. Pour slowly,
  beating constantly, over stiffly beaten egg whites. Continue beating until
  mixture holds its shape when dropped from spoon. Add flavoring and nuts.
  Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper, or pour into well-buttered pan. When
  cold cut in squares. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Jelly Candies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
MMMMM--------------------------IN A SMALL PAN-------------------------------
  1 3/4 oz Dry fruit pectin (Sure Jel)
    3/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts Baking soda

MMMMM-----------------------IN A 2ND LARGER PAN----------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Light Karo
      1 ea Flavor/color/citric acid
 
  1. Lightly grease candy molds, or spray with PAM, and sprinkle with
  ganulated sugar.
     In 1st saucepan, combine fruit pectin, water & baking soda; set aside.
  In a 2nd pan, combine sugar & corn syrup, mixing well. 2. Cook both
  mixtures, stirring alternately until foam subsides in the
     soda mixture, about 5 minutes. 3. Pour pectin mixture in a slow, steady
  stream into the boiling sugar mixture, stirring constantly. Boil & stir for
  one minute more. 4. Remove from heat stir in flavoring, food color & 1/2
  teas. citric acid. 5. Pour into prepared molds. Let set for 24 hours.
  Remove from molds. Let stand for at least a day before packaging. ***You
  can use juice of a lemon for flavoring if you wish. Color some, leave some
  clear (for a rind). Molds are available at cake supply shops for the famous
  "orange slice" candies. Dolores McCann,OH-- from Harold Guttman
  
     Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Jim Crows
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/3 c  Corn sirup
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Grate chocolate.  Add water, sugar, and sirup.  Boil to soft ball stage
  (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire.  Add peanuts and flavoring. Cool
  slightly.  Beat until mixture begins to crystalize. Drop by teaspoonfuls
  onto waxed paper. Mrs. Bertha E. Thorson, Osage, MI.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Jingle Bell Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 64
 
     12 oz Butterscotch chips
    1/2 c  Chunky peanut butter
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Walnuts (chopped)
 
  Combine butterscotch chips and peanut butter in top of double boiler. Place
  over, not boiling water until butterscotch melts; remove from water. Stir
  until blended; add milk and stir just until blended. Spread in foil-lined
  8-inch square pan. Press chopped nuts into surface, if desired, and chill
  until firm. Cut into 1-inch squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Joann's Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Entertain, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ds Salt
      1    To 1/2 C shelled raw peanuts
      1 tb Butter or margerine (I use
           -margerine)
  1 1/2 ts Soda
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Heavily grease baking sheet or jelly roll pan combine sugar, corn syrup and
  salt in 3 qt casserole Stir in peanuts.  Microwave on high until light
  brown, 8 - 10 minuts.
  
  Sitr in remaining ingredients until light and foamy.  Quickly spread on
  greased baking sheet.  Spread as thinly as possible for more brittle candy.
  
  Yield:  1 lb.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: John Beresford Tipton Bars
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 10
 
      1 lb Golden Almond Bars (5 Bars)
      1 c  Froot Loops Cereal
      1 c  Rice Krispies
      1 c  Miniature Marshmallows
 
  NOTE:  One pound of almond bark can be substituted for the candy bars if
  they are not available.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Melt candy bars in a double boiler.  Remove from heat, add cerals, mix
  until coated, then add marshmallows.  Mix well.  Pour into a buttered pan
  about 7 by 10 inches.  Let cool until set.  Cut into 20 to 30 small
  squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Jordan Almond Bark
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings:  2
 
  1 1/4 lb White Candy coating
    1/2 lb Jordan almonds (pastel
           -colored candy-coated
           -almonds)
    1/2 c  Unblanched whole almonds
 
  Line a baking sheet with foil. Set aside. In 2 qt casserole, microwave
  candy coating at 50% (medium for 4 to 6 minutes, or until coating can be
  stirred smooth, stirring twice. Stir in almonds.
  
  Spread to 1/4 to 1/2 inch thickness on prepared baking sheet. let stand, or
  chill, until set. Break into pieces. Store in cool, dry place.
  
  Makes 2 lbs.
  
  From Bobby Beers
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Karen's Caramel Corn
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Butter
      2 c  Brown Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Karo Syrup
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      6 qt Popped Popcorn
 
  Mix Butter, Brown Sugar, Salt and Karo Syrup together in pan, cook for 5
  minutes and remove from heat.  Stir in Baking Soda and Vanilla then pour
  mixture over popped popcorn. Place on pan in 200 deg oven for 1 hour
  stirring every 15 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Kathy's Rum Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 tb Lite Karo syrup, 1 cup
           -finely chopped pecans, 2
           -tbs. powdered
 
  Ingredients:  1 cup vanilla wafer crumbs, 1 cup confectionery sugar, dutch
  cocoa, and 1/4 cup or more of rum, bourbon or amaretta
  
  Combine all ingredients. Using a teaspoon, measure out the dough and roll
  into balls. Roll in the confectionery sugar and put into a foil-lined tin.
  
  Very simple ... I usually make up 2-3 recipes' worth at once and sit them
  on the dining room table. Unfortunately, the temptation is to have one
  every time I pass.
  
  Hope you enjoy !
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Kisses
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 60
 
      1 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour
     14 oz Hershey's Kisses
           Confectioner's Sugar
 
  Cream butter and sugar, beating well.  Add vanilla and flour, and mix well.
  Chill dough for one hour.  Preheat oven to 375F.  Pinch off a piece of
  dough.  Roll into ball with palms of hands and then flatten. Dough should
  not be thick.  Put kiss in center.  Bring dough up, shaping around kiss to
  cover completely.  Place onto ungreased cookie sheet one inch apart and
  bake for 12-15 minutes, until just starting to brown.  Roll in
  confectioner's sugar when cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Krispie Crunch Candy
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Chunky peanut butter -18 oz
      3 c  Rice Krispies
      1    Stick soft oleo
      1 lb Posedered sugar
     12 oz Chocolate chips
    1/2    Cake of paraffin
 
  A. Blend peanut butter, oleo, and poseders sugar] B. Mix Rice Krispies eith
  (A) mixture.  Blend with hands to crumbles, then squeeze into 1 inch balls.
  Melt chocolate chips and cake paraffin in double boiler. Dip balls in
  chocoalte mix. Lay on waxed paper until dry.
  
  Bumgarner Family Recipes submitted by Donna Bumgarner Hurt
  
  posted by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Lady Aimes Toffee
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    3/8 c  Corn sirup
    1/2 c  Chopped raisins
           Few grains salt
    3/8 c  Evaporated milk
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 ts Any flavoring
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 c  Coconut
 
  Combine sugar, sirup, milk, and salt.  Boil to hard ball stage (265 - 270
  F).  Add butter, flavoring, chopped nuts, raisins, and coconut. Pour into
  well-buttered pan.  When cold cut into long narrow bars. Blanche E.
  McGlough, San Leandro, CA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Layered Mint Chocolate Candy
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  1
 
     10    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk,
           -divided
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 pk White chocolate squares
      1 tb Peppermint extract
      6 dr Green food coloring
 
  In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt semisweet chocolate with 1 cup
  sweetened condensed milk. Remove from heat; stir in vanilla. Spread half
  the mixture into wax paper line 8 or 9 inch square pan. Chill 10 minutes or
  until firm. Hold remaining chocolate mixture at room temperature. In heavy
  saucepan, over low heat, melt white chocolate with remaining sweetened
  condensed milk. Remove from heat; stir in peppermint extract and fool
  coloring.  Spread on chilled chocolate layer. Chill 10 minutes longer or
  until firm.  Spread reserved melted chocolate mixture on mint layer. Chill
  2 hours or until firm.  Turn onto cutting board. Peel off paper and cut
  into squares.  Storre loosely covered at room temperature. Makes about
  1-3/4 lbs.
  
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1991. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Lemon Drops
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
           Powdered sugar
 
  In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine water and sugar, cook over medium
  heat stirring to dissolve sugar. Bring to boul. Add cream of tartar and
  continue boiling until syrup reaches soft crack stage, 270 F (140 C) on
  candy thermometer. Remove immediately from heat - syrup should stay a pale
  yellow color. Add lemon extract and tartaric acid. Pour syrup onto an oiled
  slab or into a dish.
  
  Using two wooden spoons, work into a toffee. Continue working until toffee
  becomes cool enough to handle with oiled hands. Pull toffee into a long
  roll.
  
  With oiled scissors, cut off small pieces and shape with your hands into
  drops. Coat with powdered sugar and allow the drops to cool and dry
  thoroughly. Store in airtight containers.
  
  Makes about 1/2 lb.
  
  Source: Gifts From The Pantry By Annette Grimsdale
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Licorice Caramels
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Butter (not margarine)
      2 c  Sugar
     14 oz Can (1-1/4 cups) sweetened
           -condensed milk
      1 c  Light corn syrup
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Anise extract
    1/2 ts Black or red coloring paste
 
  "A mild, unbelievably delicious licorice flavor.  You'll find black and red
  paste for coloring these candies in specialty and cake-decorating stores.
  The black caramels also make great Halloween treats--"
  
  Line a 9 x 9 x 2 inch baking pan with foil, extending foil over he edges of
  the pan.  Butter the foil; set aside.
  
  In a heavy 3 quart saucepan melt the butter over low heat.  Add the sugar,
  sweetened condensed milk, corn syrup, and salt; mix well. Carefully clip a
  candy thermometer to side of the pan.
  
  Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently; till candy thermometer
  registers 244; firm-ball stage.  The mixture should boil at a moderate,
  steady rate over entire surface.  Reaching firm-ball stage should take 15
  to 20 minutes. (Mixture scorches easily.)  Remove from heat; remove candy
  thermometer from saucepan.  Add anise extract and coloring, stir to mix.
  
  Quickly pour candy, without scraping into the buttered-foil-lined pan. Cool
  for several hours or till firm.  Use foil to lift candy out of pan onto
  cutting board.  Peel foil away; discard.  With a buttered sharp knife, cut
  immediately into 1-inch squares; wrap individually in waxed paper.,  Makes
  81 pieces (about 2-3/4 pounds)
  
  To wrap caramels:  Tear off 6-inch strips of waxed paper; cut each strip
  into 4 inch widths, making pieces 6 x 4 inches.  Roll caramel in length of
  paper; fold flaps under.  Set caramels into gift boxes with flaps
  underneath.  The caramels will pack neatly and stay tightly wrapped.
  
  From:  Better Homes and Gardens 1990 Best-Recipes Yearbook Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Lime Jellies
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 20
 
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Cold water
      2 tb Gelatine
    1/4 c  Hot water
    1/2 ts Lime flavouring
      1 ts Green colouring
           Castor sugar
 
  Grease and line bar pan with foil. Place sugar and cold water in small
  saucepan, stir over gentle heat until sugar is dissolved. Brush sides of
  pan with a wet pastry brush to dissolve sugar crystals. Increase heat and
  cook until syrup reaches 116 degrees C when tested with a sweets
  thermometer or until syrup forms a soft ball when tested in a cup of cold
  water.
  
  Dissolve gelatine in hot water. Add gelatine, flavouring and colouring to
  syrup, stir quickly until combined, pour into prepared pan. Allow to cool
  and set; cut jellies into pieces using a wet knife. Toss each jelly in a
  little castor sugar; store in airtight container.
  
  Makes about 20
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Lokum
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      4 c  Granulated sugar
  4 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Cornflour
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      1 tb To 2 tb rose water
           Red food colouring
    1/2 c  Chopped, toasted almonds,
           -unblanched
    3/4 c  Icing (confectioner's) sugar
           Additional 1/4 cup cornflour
 
  Combine sugar, 1 & 1/2 cups water and lemon juice in a thick based pan.
  Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves, brushing sugar crystals off side
  of pan with a bristle brush dipped in cold water.
  
  Bring to the boil and boil it to soft ball stage, 115 degrees Celsius (240
  degrees Farenheight) on a candy thermometer.  Remove from the heat.
  
  In another thick based pan blend cornflour, cream of tartar and 1 cup cold
  water until smooth.  Boil remaining 2 cups of water and stir into cornflour
  mixture, then place over heat.  Stir constantly until mixture thickens and
  bubbles. Use a balloon whisk if lumps form.
  
  Pour hot syrup gradually into cornflour mixture, stirring constantly. Bring
  to the boil and boil gently for 1 & 1/4 hours.  Stir occassionally with a
  wooden spoon and cook until mixture is a pale golden colour. Stirring is
  essential.
  
  Stir in rose water to taste and a few drops of ted food colouring to tinge
  it a pale pink.  Blend in nuts if used, and remove from heat.
  
  Pour into an oiled 23 cm (9 inch) square cake tin and leave for 12 hours to
  set.
  
  Combine icing sugar and the 1/4 cup cornflour in a flat dish.
  
  Cut Turkish Delight into squares with an oiled knife and toss into sugar
  mixture.
  
  Store in a sealed container with remaining sugar misture sprinkled between
  layers.
  
  Variations:
  
  Creme de Menth Lokum: replace rose water and red food coloring with 2
  tablespoons
  
  Creme de Menth liqueur and a little green food coloring.  Omit nuts.
  
  Orange Lokum:  Use 1-2 tablespoons orange flower water instead of rose
  water; use orange food colouring.
  
  Vanilla Lokum:  Use 2 tablespoons vanilla essence instead of rose water and
  colouring, and stir in 1/2 cup toasted chopped almonds or chopped walnuts.
  Do not blanch almonds.
  
  Hope this is what you were after.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Lollipops
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 10
 
      1 c  Light corn syrup
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Sugar
           Flavoring
           Coloring
           Lollipop sticks
 
  Lollipops are best made on the day you wish to serve them.
  
  Place corn syrup, water and sugar in small saucepan, stir over low heat
  until sugar is dissolved. Brush sides of pan with a wet pastry brush to
  dissolve sugar crystals. Increase heat, cook until syrup reaches 150
  degrees C when tested with a sweets thermometer or until syrup reaches hard
  crack stage. Remove from heat, add a little flavouring and colouring to
  syrup, stir through. Pour spoonfuls of mixture in desired shapes onto
  foil-covered trays. Press a lollipop stick into each shape; allow lollipops
  to cool at room temperature.
  
  Makes about 10.
  
  Flavouring & Colouring Suggestions
  
  For one batch of syrup add 1/2 teaspoon of raspberry, orange, lime or lemon
  flavouring and 1/2 teaspoon of red, orange, green, or yellow colouring.
  Mixture can also be divided and flavoured and coloured, as desired, to
  create multicolored lollipops.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: M & M Christmas Ornaments
 Categories: Candies, Desserts
   Servings:  1
 
MMMMM--------------------------TREE ORNAMENTS-------------------------------
           Plastic wrap
           Pkg.'s M&M's
           Pipe Cleaner
           Ribbon

MMMMM-------------------------CHRISTMAS WREATH------------------------------
           Same ingredients as ornament
           - but also a wire coat
           - hanger
 
  TREE ORNAMENTS: Cut plastic wrap into 6-inch squares.  Gather corners and
  twist tightly.  Secure with pipe cleaner.  Cluster individual balls into
  one large one, connecting each ball with the adjoining pipe cleaner.  Tie
  "curling" ribbon around the cluster to form a loop at the tops.  Tie two
  10-inch strands of ribbon at the bottom and curl.  Hang on the tree with
  the loop ends.
  
  M&M CANDY WREATH: Make cluster balls the same way as the candy tree
  ornament clusters, using plain or peanut M&M's.  Form a circle from a wire
  coat hanger, the hook forms the hanging loop.  Attach cluster balls to the
  hanger with pipe cleaners.  Tie a large bow at the top of the wreatn.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Macadamia-Orange Fudge (Microwave)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      5 oz Evaporated milk (1 can)
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
      1    Pkge semisweet chocolate
           -pieces (6 ounces)
    3/4 c  Macadamia nuts, chopped
      1 tb Orange-flavored liqueur
 
  Line an 8-inch square pan with foil.  Melt butter in a glass bowl on HIGH,
  1 minute.  Stir in sugar and milk.  Cook on HIGH for 8 minutes, stirring
  every 3 minutes.  Add marshmallows and chocolate; stir and reheat until
  smooth.  Stir in nuts and liqueur.  Pour into prepared pan. Chill until
  firm.  Cut into pieces.
  
  Makes 2 pounds.
  
  [ McCALL'S; January 1990 ]
  
  Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Magic Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Syd's book, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      6 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
    1/3 c  +1 tb Sweetened Condensed
           Milk
      1 pn Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla Or Rum Extract
 
  Melt chocolate without stirring in top of double boiler.  Remove from heat
  and add condensed milk,salt and flavoring.  Stir only until blended. Press
  into a block one inch high in wax paper lined pan.  Chill until firm. Turn
  out.  Remove wax paper.  Cut into serving pieces.  Store in airtight
  container.  Makes about 1/2 pound.  From: Syd's Cookbook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Maple Apples
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      6    Tart apples
      1 c  Maple syrup
  1 1/2 c  Water
 
  Wash, pare and core apples. Leave whole. Combine water and syrup and bring
  to a boil. Add apples and simmer until tender. Turn frequently to insure
  even cooking. When apples are done, remove from pan and continue to cook
  syrup until thickened. Pour syrup over apples. Serve warm or cold with
  cream.
  
  =Steve Herrick= Source: WBZ-WBZA Home Forum 2/22/51
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Maple Cream Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Cream
      3 tb Butter
 
  Stir all together. Boil until it drops from spoon. Add vanilla. Beat until
  it thickens. Pour into buttered pan.
  
  From the book "Treasured Mennonite Recipes" from the Mennonite Community
  Relief Sales Volume 1
  
  AR/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Maple Cream Balls
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Maple sirup
      2 ts Butter or butter substitute
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Boil sirup and salt to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire.
  Cool to room temperature.  Add butter.  Add flavoring. Beat until creamy.
  Add 1/2 the nuts.  Continue beating until mixture is sufficiently firm to
  mold into small balls. Boll balls in remainder of nuts. Place on waxed
  paper to harden. Eva Riggs, Brittmount, MI.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Maple Fondant
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Substitute 1 cup maple sugar for 1 cup white sugar in the recipe for
  fondant, or use 1/2 teaspoon maple flavoring. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Maple Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Granulated White Sugar
      2 c  Maple Syrup
    1/4 c  Corn Syrup
    1/2 c  Milk or Cream
      1 tb Butter
 
  Mix flour and sugar in a saucepan. Add maple syrup, corn syrup, and milk.
  Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally to soft ball stage. (232-236
  degrees) Remove from heat and drop butter on top. Cool to lukewarm; beat
  until glossy look begins to leave. Pour quickly into buttered pan.
  
  SOURCE:Carole Lathrop
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Maple Pralines
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  White granulated sugar
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Dark brown sugar
           Pn salt
      3 tb White corn syrup
      2 ts Maple flavoring
      3    Or more cups pecans
 
  Cook sugars, syrup, cream and salt over high heat until the mixture forms a
  soft ball (235 degrees) when dropped in water. Remove from heat. Add maple
  flavoring and pecans. Beat or stir until creamy. Drop from spoon onto waxed
  paper in bite size pieces. Yield: 4 to 5 dozen.
  
  Found in: River Road Recipes II Recipe by: Mrs. Julius H. Mullins Shared
  by: Scott Ward
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marble Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
    3/4 c  Peanut butter, divided
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
    1/4 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Icing sugar
    1/4 c  Chocolate chips, melted
 
  In small mixer bowl, beat together 1/2 c peanut butter, butter, corn syrup
  and vanilla.  Stir in icing sugar until well blended.
  
  Melt chocolate chips in measuring cup in the microwave or in a small pot on
  the stove and stir in 1/4 c peanut butter.  Gently stir this mixture
  slightly back into the peanut butter for a marble effect.
  
  Pour into a small pie plate or pan and refrigerate until set.  Keep in
  refrigerator.  Cut into squares.
  
  Co-op Magazine April 1993 shared by Elizabeth Rodier
  
  PEANUT BUTTER TRIVIA * Canadians eat a total of 80,849 kg of peanut butter
  a day (about 177,868 pounds or almost 89 tons) * Smooth peanut butter
  outsells crunchy by 3 to 1 * Children and men prefer smooth peanut butter;
  women prefer crunchy * Most peanut butter is eaten at breakfast * One acre
  of land grows enough peanuts to make 30,000 peanut butter sandwiches
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marchepane
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 lb Skinned, blanched whole
           -almonds
           Ice water
      4    Egg whites
  2 2/3 c  Confectioners sugar
    1/2 c  Orange juice
 
  Colors: Natural, or, if necessary, artificial parsley or mallow for green
  sandalwood or alkanet for red saffron or dandelion for yellow blue turnsole
  for light blue violets for lavender
  
  1. In a mortar and pestal or a blender, grind the almonds to a thick paste.
  Add small amounts of ice water, about 1/2 tsp. at a time, to prevent the
  almonds from becoming to oily.  Place almond paste in a large mixing bowl.
  2.  In another bowl, beat egg whites until they peak.  Gradually beat in
  the sugar. 3. Add the sweetened egg whites to the almond paste. With
  fingers wet in orange juice, knead the resulting mixture. If the mixture is
  too sticky to handle, add small amounts of orange juice, 1 tsp. at a time.
  Thoroughly knead for about 10 minutes. 4. Separate the marzipan into
  several sections, on for every color required for your sculpture. 5. In a
  separate small mixing bowl for each color, place the marzipan portions and
  cover the bowl tightly with a clean cloth tied securely or with aluminum
  foil.  Allow these to ripen or "age" in refrigerator for at least 24 hours.
  (One old recipe recommends aging for a fortnight). Two days ought to
  suffice. 6. Mix the natural coloring agents, into the aged marzipan. The
  stiff confection will be easier to knead if allowed to return to room temp.
  7.  Sculpture the paste according to your wildest fancy.  Wet fingers,
  preferably in ice water.
  
  From: Fabulous Feasts, Medieval Cookery and Ceremony Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marry Ellen's Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1    Bag semisweet chocolate
           -chips
    1/2    Bag butterscotch chips
      1    Regular-size can Eagle milk
           -(evaporated milk)
           Vanilla extract
 
  Combine all ingredients in a microwave-safe bowl.  Microwave for 2 minutes.
  Stir.  Pour into 8 x 8 inch bowl and let cool.
  
  From:  Mary Ellen Shook Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 7/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marshmallows
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1    Envelopoe gelatin
    1/3 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Fine granulated sugar
 
  Put gelatin and cold water in top of double boiler.  Let gelatin soften.
  Put over boiling water and stir until gelatin is dissolved.  Add sugar,
  stir until dissolved.  Put this mixture in a large mixing bowl with the
  corn syrup and vanilla.  Beat with electric mixer about 15 minutes, or
  until thick and marshmallow like.
  
  Combine cornstarch and sugar.  Spread 1/3 of this mixture in the bottom of
  a 7x10x1 1/2" pan.  Pour in marshmallow mixture, smooth with a spatula.
  
  Let cool at room temperature, about 1 hour.  Run spatula around edges and
  turn out onto board spread with 1/3 of cornstarch/sugar mixture.
  
  Cut into squares, roll in remaining cornstarch/sugar mixture.
  
  Variation:  Chocolate Marshmallows:  Do as above but at about 7 minutes of
  beating time, add 3 tablespoons cocoa and 1/2 tsp salt.  Continue beating
  for remaining time.  Finish as above but add 1-2 tsp cocoa to
  cornstarch/sugar mixture.
  
  Thought all you Mothers of younger children might get a kick out of making
  these.  I know my kids did.  They thought I was a genius to be able to do
  it.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marshmallow Cream Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Butter/margarine
      2 c  Sugar
      1 cn (5 oz.) evaporated milk (2/3
           -cup)
      1 pk (12 oz) semi-sweet chocolate
           -morsels
           OR 2 cups milk chocolate
           -morsels
      1    Jar (7-10 oz) marshmallow
           -cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Nuts, chopped (optional)
 
  Place butter in 9x9x2 inch dish.  Heat in microwave on full power for 1 to
  1-1/2 minutes or until melted.
  
  Blend in sugar and evaporated milk.  Mix well.
  
  Cook in microwave on Level 8 (medium-high) for 15-17 minutes or until soft
  ball (see note below) stage is reached.  Stir mixture frequently during
  cooking time.
  
  Blend in chocolate morsels, marshmallw cream, vanilla and nuts.  Stir until
  smooth.  Chill until firm.  Cut into 1-inch squares.  Store in airtight
  container.
  
  NOTE:  the soft ball stage is when the candy syrup, when dripped into very
  cold water, forms a firm ball which does not flatten on removal from water.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marshmallow Easter Eggs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 26
 
           -Robbie Shelton
      2    Envelopes Unflavored
           -Gelatin
      2 tb -Cold Water
    1/2 c  -Boiling Water
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Flour
    3/4 lb Chocolate for dipping
           Regal Icing
 
  Put gelatin in top of double boiler; add cold water.  When gelatin softens,
  add boiling water and stil well.  Add sugar and salt.  Put over boiling
  water and stir until sugar dissolves completely.
  
  Pour into large bowl of electric mixer and beat at high speed until misture
  is thick but not as stiff as beaten egg whites.  Add vanilla.
  
  Meanwhile, spread flour 2" deep in a large pan.  Push an egg (in shell)
  into the flour  at intervals, making hollow spaces in which to mold the
  marshmallow mixture.
  
  Drop marshmallow mixture into the flour molds.  Sprinkle flour lightly over
  top and put in cold place until set.  Remove mixture from one mold and you
  have a  half-egg.  Trim the flat side of marshmallow half-egg to make it
  even.  You can dip it in melted chocolate to cover and decorate with Regal
  Icing.
  
  Or you can put two halves together to make an egg, as follows:  Dip the
  rounded part of a half-egg in melted chocolate; set aside to cool, flat
  (uncoated) side down.  Trim flat side of second half-egg (to make it even),
  lift from mold and completely coat with chocolate.  Quickly press its flat
  side against the flat side of the cooled half-egg and you have a whole egg.
  The chocolate will hold it together.
  
  When chocolate-coated eggs are cool, trim with Regal Icing put through cake
  decorator tube.  Make ruffles around them to cover seam where the two
  halves join and to provide decoration.  Write names of children on their
  eggs with the icing, or decorate with tiny designs pressed through fine
  tips of a cake decorator tube.  Frosting my be left white or tinted in
  pastel colors.  Makes 13 eggs (or 26 half-eggs).
  
  This recipe is from HOMEMADE CANDY by the authors of Farm Journal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marshmallows
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Hot water
      1 tb Gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold water
           Few grains salt
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Combine sugar and hot water.  Boil to soft
  ball stage (236 - 238 F).  Add gelatin and salt.   Beat until stiff. Add
  flavoring.  Beat thoroughly.  Pour into a pan which has been dusted with
  powdered sugar.  Dust surface with powdered sugar. Allow to stand until
  stiff enough to hold its shape. Cut in strips. Remove from pan. Cut in
  squares.  Roll in powdered sugar. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marshmallow Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      2 oz Chocolate
           Cream of tartar; a pinch
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Marshmallows
 
  Cook all ingredients, except marshmallows to soft ball stage. Remove from
  fire and beat until creamy. Add marshmallows cut up. Pour into buttered
  pan, mark in squares.
  
  Source: Ethel Edwards, Hillgrove Grange, Darke County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marshmallow Cream Nut Candy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Chopped marshmallows
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 c  Chopped raisins
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Boil sugar, milk, butter, and salt to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Remove
  from fire.  Add marshmallows.  Cool to room temperature. Beat until thick
  and creamy.  Add nuts, raisins, and flavoring. Pour into well-buttered,
  shallow pan. Cut in squares. Ella Davis, Pleasant Unity, PA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Marzapan
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    250 g  Sugar
    500 g  Shreded almonds
    200 g  Dusting sugar (10 x extra
           -very fine)
      2    Beated eggs
      1 tb Lemon juice (Real one)
      1 ts Almond essence
 
  Place sugar in a bowl with the almonds, add the eggs, lemon juice and the
  almond essence.  Now go and wash your hands very well and wipe them
  extremly well (very dry). Mix the batter and make a ball with it. Now on a
  dusting sugar covered place the "ball" and by hand start to knead it until
  it is soft enough. Now is ready for use.
  
  Can be used on top of cakes and then coming the glace in fine stripes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mayan Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Whipping cream
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      1 ts Instant coffee
    1/8 c  Coffee liqueur
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate pieces
    1/4 c  Cocoa
 
  Bring cream to the boiling point in a medium saucepan. Remove from heat and
  add 12 ounces chocolate chips and instant coffee, cover. Allow to sit 10
  minutes. Remove lid and stir. Add coffee liqueur. Allow mixture to cool 2
  hours in the refrigerator. Shape into small balls on wax paper-lined trays
  and place in freezer. Melt remaining chocolate and allow to cool slightly.
  Dip balls in the chocolate and roll in the cocoa. Store in the
  refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mexican Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      1 c  Evaporated milk (do not
           -dilute)
      1 pn Of salt
      2 ts Orange peel, grated
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Using a wooden spoon, stir a cup of sugar into frypan until caramelized.
  Add water. Stir until sugar dissolves. Add remaining sugar, milk, and salt.
  Plae over low heat and stir until mixture boils. Cook, stirring until it
  reaches softball stage. Remove from heat. Cool to lukewarm, without
  stirring. Add orange peel. Beat until candy loses gloss and holds its shape
  when dropped from spoon. Pour into lightly buttered 8-inch square pan and
  cut when cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mexican Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 64
 
      4 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
      4    Beaten eggs
      4 oz Can chopped green chilies
      2 ts Chopped pimiento
      2    Bacon strips,cook,crumble
 
  Combine all ingredients, mixing well.  Spread into an ungreased 8"^ square
  baking pan.  Bake at 350 F for 30 minutes.  Makes 64 one inch squares.
  
  Per square: 35 calories, 2.3 g protein, 2.8 g fat, .3 g carbohydrate, 21 mg
  cholesterol, 52 mg sodium
  
  From: Texas Department of Agriculture Posted by: Sheila Exner - October
  1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings: 12
 
      1 c  Raw Peanuts
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  White Corn Syrup
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking Soda
 
  Stir together peanuts, sugar, syrup, salt.  Cook 4 minutes on high.
  Stirring well, cook another 4 minutes. Add butter and vanilla to peanut
  mixture stirring to blend. Return and cook 2 minutes. (Peanuts will be
  slightly browned and syrup hot). Add baking soda and gently stir until
  foamy.  Pour onto aluminum foil. Let cool, break into pieces and store air
  tight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 lb Butter or margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  1.  Lightly grease an 8-inch square dish.  Set aside.
  
  2.  Place confectioners' sugar and cocoa in a medium-sized, heat-resistant,
  non-metallic mixing bowl.  Stir to combine.
  
  3.  Add milk and butter to sugar-cocoa mixture.  DO NOT STIR  (I was told
  to make a little well in the sugar stuff and then putting the butter and
  milk in the well, and I'm surprised to find it doesn't say that in the
  recipe...)
  
  4.  Heat, uncovered, on FULL POWER 2 minutes.
  
  5.  After cooking, stir just to combine ingredients.
  
  6.  Add vanilla and nuts.  Stir until blended.
  
  7.  Pour into prepared dish and refrigerate for 1 hour before cutting and
  serving.
  
  Valerie's Note:  Serve fudge squares with a big bowl of hot buttered
  popcorn, turn on a good movie and nestle in with that special someone....
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Carmel Corn
 Categories: Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
           Cup margarine (or butter)
           Cup Karo (dark) syrup
      1    Tspn. Vanila
           Tspn. Baking soda
      4 qt Popped popcorn
 
  Bring to boil in microwave safe bowl, sugar, margarine, and syrup. (1 min)
  Cook 1 min longer.  Mix in Vanila and Baking soda.  Pour mixture over
  Popcorn and mix. Place coated popcorn in a large paper bag. Microwave 4
  minutes turning and shaking every minute. Spread on wax paper to cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Never-Fail Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Margarine
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      7 oz Marshmallow creme
      6 oz Chocolate chips
    1/2 oz Baking chocolate
 
  Combine sugar, margarine, milk and marshmallow creme in 2 quart microwave
  safe bowl.  Microcook on high 3 minutes.  Stir well.
  
  Continue microcooking 2 to 3 minutes more or until mixture boils. Reduce
  power to 50% and microcook 5 minutes.
  
  Add chocolate chips and shaved baking chocolate.  Stir until melted. Pour
  into buttered 8" dish.
  
  From the recipe files of Sheila Exner - September 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Creamy Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
     12 oz Evaporated milk
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
     12 oz Chocolate chips (2 cups)
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped nuts (optional)
 
  Mix sugar, milk, butter and a dash of salt in a 3 quart microwave safe
  bowl.  Cover loosely with wax paper.  Microcook on high 4 minutes.
  
  Uncover, Microcook 10 minutes more, stirring every 3 minutes.
  
  Continue cooking, stirring every 2 minutes, until candy thermometer reads
  234 to 240 degrees. (soft ball stage).  Stir in marshmallows and chocolate
  chips and nuts if using.  Stir vigorously until creamy and slightly glossy.
  
  Spread in a buttered 11x7 pan.  Refrigerate 2 hours or until set.
  
  From the recipe files of Sheila Exner - September 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Divinity Candy
 Categories: Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    2/3 c  HOT water
      2    Large egg whites
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, corn syrup and water in 3 quart microwave safe bowl.
  
  Cook on high for 12 minutes and 30 seconds. (Thin thread stage) Beat egg
  whites until stiff, slowly beat in syryp, beating until mixture loses
  shine.  Stir in vanilla.
  
  Drop by teaspoon onto waxed paper.
  
  I like these plain, but I know lots of people like chopped cherries or nuts
  stirred in.
  
  From the recipe files of Sheila Exner - September 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Pecan Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Pecan halves
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking soda
 
  Stir pecans, sugar, syrup, and salt together in a 1 1/2 quart glass bowl.
  Microwave on HIGH 7 to 8 minutes, stirring well after 4 minutes. At the end
  of 8 minutes, add butter and vanilla. Blend well. Return to microwave and
  cook on HIGH 1 to 2 minutes more. Remove and add baking soda and gently
  stir until mixture is light and foamy. Pour onto lightly greased cookie
  sheet and let cool 30 minutes to 1 hour. Break into pieces and store in
  airtight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Divinity
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Entertain
   Servings: 30
 
      3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    2/3 c  -Water
    1/4 ts -Salt
      1    Egg white
    1/4 ts -Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
   1. In a 3-quart glass bowl, microwave sugar, syrup and water on FULL POWER
  for 12 to 18 minutes, or until mixture spins a fine thread.
   2. In another bowl, add salt to egg whites, beating constantly until
  whites are stiff and form peaks.
   3. Slowly pour a thin stream of syrup mixture into egg whites, beating
  constantly until mixture loses shine and thickens.
   4. Stir in vailla and nuts. Immediately drop by teaspoonsful on waxed
  paper.
   Source:  Sharp Microwave Oven Cook Book.
   This has been a never-fail recipe for me. The only problem I have had is
  cooking too long; then you had better have someone to help you drop the
  candy before it gets too hard.
  
     Joyce Burton, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Microwave Fudge (From Sear's Microwave Cookbook
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 36
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
     16    Large Marshmallows
     12 oz Chocolate chips
      1 c  Nuts, chopped
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, butter and milk in a 2-quart glass mixing bowl. Cook on
  roast (70%) for 2 to 3 minutes, or until mixture begins to boil. Remove
  from oven and stir well. Cook on roast for 2 to 3 minutes, or until mixture
  boils and sugar is COMPLETELY dissolved.  Stir in marshmallows (10 miniture
  marshmallows equal 1 [ONE] large marshmallow) and chocolate chips and beat
  until smooth.  Fudge sets up rapidly, so don't delay when doing this step.
  Stir in nuts and vanilla and spread mixture into a 8 inch buttered baking
  dish. Cool. Cut into 1 inch squares.
  
     Dennis Spivey, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Milano Figs in Cocoa
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
     12    Ripe figs--peeled
      1 c  Ricotta cheese
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Orange liqueur
      2 tb Confectioner's sugar
           Cocoa
 
  Cut the figs twice through the center but DO NOT cut through the base.
  Stand them on a serving platter. Spread them open. Place the ricotta in a
  bowl and thin with the cream.  Add the orange liqueur and sugar.  Spoon the
  mixture neatly over the figs. Dust each fig with a tiny bit of cocoa. Chill
  15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Milk Chocolate Praline
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Water
     12 oz Milk Chocolate Morsels
    1/4 c  Corn syrup - light
      1 c  Pecans - coarsely chopped
      1 ts Vinegar
 
  In a large saucepan, combine sugar, water, corn syrup, vinegar and salt.
  Bring to full boil, stirring constantly.  Boil 3 minutes without stirring.
  Remove from heat; cool 5 minutes.  Add chocolate morsels; stir quickly
  until melted.  Stir in pecans.  Quickly drop by measuring tablespoonfuls
  onto foil-lined cookie sheets (work as rapidly as possible as mixture tend
  to set up quickly).  Garnish with pecan halves,if desired.
  
  Refrigerate until set (about 20 minutes).  Peel candies off to serve. Store
  in refrigerator.
  
  Makes 4 dozen 2" candies. Toll House Heritage Cookbook, Rev. 1984.
  
  From Tony Balano.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Milk Chocolate and Orange Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 21
 
           Karen Mintzias
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
     24 oz Milk chocolate (imported)
           - finely chopped
      2 tb Unsalted butter
  1 1/2 ts Grated orange peel
           Unsweetened cocoa powder
      2 ts Solid vegetable shortening
 
  Line a cookie sheet with foil.  Bring cream to simmer in heavy medium
  saucepan.  Reduce heat to low.  Add half the chocolate and whisk until
  melted.  Whisk in butter and orange peel.  Freeze until chocolate mixture
  is firm enough to mound on spoon, about 40 minutes.
  
  Drop mixture by rounded tablespoons onto foil-lined sheet, spacing apart.
  Freeze until almost firm but still pliable, about 30 minutes.  Roll each in
  cocoa powder.  Then roll between palms of hands into ball.  Place on same
  sheet.  Freeze until firm, about 1 hour.
  
  Melt remaining half of chocolate with shortening in top of double boiler
  over simmering water, stirring until smooth.  Remove mixture from over
  water.  Grasp 1 truffle between thumb and index finger; roll truffle in
  melted chocolate, coating completely.  Shake to remove excess chocolate.
  Place truffle on same foil-lined sheet.  Repeat with remaining truffles.
  Refrigerate until coating is firm, about 1 hour.
  
  Dust truffles with cocoa powder, brush off excess.  (Can be prepared 2
  weeks ahead.  Store in refrigerator in an air-tight container.)  Let stand
  at room temperature 10 minutes and serve.
  
  Source: Bon Appetit magazine - September 1991 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Millionaires
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Butter
     14 oz Pkg caramels
      2 c  Pecans
      8    (1 oz) Hershey bars
    1/4    Bar parrafin
 
  Melt butter on low heat in top of double boiler.  Add caramels.  Cover and
  stir occasionally.  Butter will be hard to get mixed in with caramel, but
  don't give up!  Stir in nuts.  Drop by spoonfuls on well greased wax paper.
  Cool until firm.
  
  Melt chocolate and paraffin on very low heat.  Dip caramel and nuts into
  chocolate mixture.
  
  *Ellen*
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mimosa Crystals
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Flowers
      1 oz Gum arabic
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Corn syrup
      1 c  Sugar
 
  In Grasse, on the French Riviera, they praline the blossoms of mimosa. The
  little fluffy balls, solidified in sugar, are particularly delicious in
  flavor.
  
  Dry the flowers. Dissolve gum arabic in 1/2 cup hot water and cool.
  Carefully coat the petals with this mixture.  Put them on wax paper so they
  will not touch and mix the corn syrup and sugar in 1/2 cup water and cook
  to a soft ball.  Dip petals into syrup and dry.  Sprinkle with finely
  granulated sugar.
  
  "Les Mimosas" the flower-girls cry as they offer us branches Along the
  curve of their sea a-bloom in the sunlight; Like dust, like foam are the
  blooms, but many and golden On branch that I hold in my hand... Flower
  Pieces by Padraic Colum The Orwell Press, Dublin 1938
  
  Source: Flower Cookery (The Art of Cooking with Flowers) - by Mary MacNicol
  Fleet Press Corporation - New York Library of Congress Catalogue Card No.
  67-24072 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Miniature Chocolate-Peanut Butter Pies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/4 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      5 tb Unsalted butter, melted
    1/2 c  Plus 2 T sour cream
  2 1/2 tb Powdered sugar
      2 tb Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Plus 2 T creamy peanut
           -butter..do not use old-
           Fashioned style or freshly
           -ground!
    1/2 c  Whipping cream (in addition
           -to above)
      4 oz Simisweet chocolate, chopped
 
  Mix graham cracker crumbs and butter in a small bowl. Press crumb mixture
  on bottom and up sides of 24 mini- muffin tins (each about 1 3/4 inches in
  diameter). Place in freezer for 20 minutes.
  
  Whisk sour cream, powdered sugar and 2 T whipping cream in bowl to blend.
  Add peanut butter and whisk until smooth. Spoon 1 T peanut butter mixture
  into each graham cracker crust; freeze 3 hours.
  
  Bring 1/2 C cream to simmer in heavy saucepan.  Reduce heat to low. Add
  chocolate; stir until melted.  Cool completely, stirring occasionally.
  
  Spoon 2 teaspoons chocolate mixture over each peanut- butter pie. Place in
  freezer until set.  (can be prepared 1 week ahead. Keep frozen.)
  
  Using tip of small sharp knife as an aid, gently pry pies from tins. Let
  stand at room temperature for 10 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Miniature Candy Bars
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 lb Confectioners sugar
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
     12 oz Butterscotch flavored pieces
      1 lb Chopped Spanish peanuts
 
  Combine confectioners sugar, sweetened condensed milk, vanilla and almond
  extract in large bowl. Mix thoroughly, using hands to knead. Roll mixture
  between two sheets of plastic wrap to form 13x9 rectangle. Chill in
  refrigerator. Meanwhile, melt chocolate and butterscotch pieces in top of
  double boiler over hot water. Stir in peanuts. Spread one half of chocolate
  mixture in buttered 13x9x2 baking pan. Carefully place fondant layer on
  top. Spread remaining chocolate mixture on top. Refrigerate until firm.
  Remove from refrigerator 10 minutes before cutting. Cut into bars. Store in
  refrigerator. Makes 48 pieces. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate
  Recipes Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mint Julep Bourbon Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 50
 
  2 1/2 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
      1 c  Sifted powdered sugar
      1 c  Finely chopped pecans or
           -walnuts
      3 tb Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Bourbon
    1/4 c  White creme de menthe
 
  Makes 50 to 60 balls
  
  Crush vanilla wafers until fine and mix with powdered sugar and nuts in a
  large bowl. Add corn syrup, bourbon and creme de menthe. Mix well and form
  into balls. If desired, roll in additional powdered sugar. Let mellow at
  room temperature for 24 hours. Store in tightly closed container.
  
  From: Cindy Summers, Military Lifestyle magazine Dec 90/Jan 91 Posted by:
  Bill McGimpsey
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mint Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 24
 
     10 oz Mint chocolate chips
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Butter
  3 1/2 oz Chocolate sprinkles
 
  Melt chips with whipping cream and butter in heavy, medium saucepan over
  low heat, stirring occasionally.  Pour into pie pan. Refrigerate until
  mixture is fudgy, but soft, about 2 hours. Shape about 1 T of the mixture
  into 1 1/4 inch ball To shape, roll mixture in your palms. Place balls on
  waxed paper. Place sprinkles in shallow bowl. Roll balls in sprinkles;
  place in petit four or candy cases.  (If coating mixture won't stick
  because truffle has set, roll between your palms until outside is soft.)
  Truffles can be refrigerated 2 to 3 days or frozen several weeks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mint Wafers
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
      4 c  Powdered sugar
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 ts Peppermint extract
 
  Cover cookie sheet with waxed paper.  Mix 3 1/2 cups powdered sugar, the
  milk and food coloring if desired.  Knead in extract and enough additional
  powdered sugar to make a smooth, creamy mixture.  Shape mixture into 1-inch
  balls.  Place about 1 inch apart on cookie sheet.  Flatten each ball with
  fork to about 1/4-inch thickness.  Let stand uncovered at room temperature
  about 1 hour or until firm.  Turn candies over and let stand about 1 hour
  or until firm.  Store mints in airtight container.  About 8 dozen candies;
  25 calories per candy.  Note: Substitute spearmint or wintergreen extract.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mints
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Melt fondant over hot water.  Flavor with peppermint, spearmint, or
  wintergreen.  Tint with any desired food coloring.  Drop by teaspoonfuls
  onto waxed paper.  Mints may be dipped in chocolate if desired. The
  Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Minty Mallows
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings: 12
 
     14 oz Sweetened Condensed Milk
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips
      2 c  Marshmallows, Miniature
      1 c  Nuts, Coarsley Chopped
 
  Combine over hot (not boiling) water; sweetened condensed milk and mint
  chocolate chips.  Stir until chips are melted and mixture is smooth. In a
  large bowl, combine marshmallows and nuts.  Add chocolate mixture; mix
  well.  Spread into a foil-lined 9-inch square pan. Chill until firm, about
  20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mixed Toffees
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter
    1/4 c  White vinegar
      4 tb Boiling water
           Glace' nuts and cherries for
           -decoration
 
  In a large heavy-bottomed saucepan, bring sugar, butter, vinegar and water
  to a boil.
  
  Boil until the color changes and then start testing by dropping the mixture
  by drops into a teacup or glass of iced water. When a firm ball is produced
  (test by feeling) toffee is done. Or cook to 290 F (147 C) on candy
  thermometer. Spoon immediately into small candy molds.
  
  Decorate with cherries and nuts.
  
  Makes about 24.
  
  Source: Gifts From The Pantry By Annette Grimsdale
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mocha Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 30
 
      1 lb Dark chocolate, broken into
           Pieces
      1 lb Can sweetened condensed milk
  2 1/2 oz Butter
      1 tb Instant coffee
      1 ts Boiling water
 
  Grease and line lamington pan with foil. Place chocolate, condensed milk
  and butter in saucepan, stir constantly over low heat until mixture is
  smooth. Blend coffee and water together until coffee is dissolved, add to
  chocolate mixture, stir until evenly combined. Pour into prepared pan,
  refrigerate until set. Cut into squares to serve.
  
  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until required.
  
  Makes about 30.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mocha Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 30
 
 11 1/2 oz Milk chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      2 ts Instant coffee granules
      2 ts Coffee-flavored liqueur
    2/3 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
 
  Melt chips with whipping cream and coffee granules in heavy, medium
  saucepan over low heat, stirring occasionally.  Whisk in liqueur until
  blended.  Pour into pie pan.  Refrigerate until mixture is fudgy, but soft,
  about 2 hours.  Shape about 1 T of the mixture into 1 1/4 inch ball by
  rolling between your palms. Place balls on waxed paper. Place crumbs in a
  shallow bowl.  Roll balls in crumbs; place in petit four or candy cases.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mochalettes
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 40
 
      1 c  Vanilla(graham) wafer crumbs
  1 1/4 c  Icing sugar (powdered)
    1/3 c  Nuts, chopped
      1 tb Cocoa
    1/2 tb Instant coffee
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Rum extract (optional)
           Coconut or nuts for rolling
 
  Combine crushed wafers, sugar, cocoa, nuts and coffee.  Add milk and mix
  well.  Add extract and mix.
  
  Form into small balls (about 1 tsp each) and roll in coconut or chopped
  nuts.  Chill.
  
  Source:  Fill the Cookie Jar, City of Calgary Electric System, undated
  Shared and tested by Elizabeth Rodier Aug 93.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mokettes Aux Amandes (Almond Mochettes)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      5 oz Chocolate
      1 ts Coffee concentrate
    1/4 lb Confectioners' sugar
  2 1/2 oz Sweet almonds
      2 tb Milk
      1 tb Rum
 
  Preparation: Shell the almonds, lightly grill them, then pulverize them in
  a mortar with the rum. Grate the chocolate into fine powder; work it with
  the milk into a paste, then add the coffee, sugar and almonds. Mix well
  together. Make into balls and roll in grated or granulated chocolate. Let
  stand 5-6 hr. to harden before serving.
  
  Source   : The Art of French Cooking Posted by: Rina de Jong
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Of molasses, 1 cup of sugar,
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Vinegar
           Butter, size of a walnut
 
  Combine all ingredients , boil 20 minutes, stir all the time. Place in
  refrigerator until cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Candy (Old-Fashioned Pull Taffy)
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Molasses
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      2 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Water
      1 tb Vinegar
        pn Baking Soda
 
  Boil all together until a little tried in cold water becomes brittle. Pour
  on a buttered dish and allow to cool. When cool enough to handle, rub
  butter on hands and pull the candy (small portions at a time) until light
  in color. Cut in small pieces. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine
  Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 10
 
      4 qt Popped Corn
      2 c  Molasses
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Soda
 
  Boil Molasses, sugar, butter, and salt, stirring occasionally untill
  mixture forms hard ball in cold water.  Remove from fire, add soda and mix
  well.  Pour over popped corn, stirring so that each kernel may be coated.
  Form into a ball with well buttered hands QUICKLY!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Squares
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Butter or butter substitute
    1/3 c  Molasses
    1/3 c  Water
           Few grains salt
 
  Combine ingredients and boil to soft crack stage (275 - 280 F). Pour into
  well-buttered, shallow pan.  Cut in squares when nearly cold. Mrs. J.M.
  Novin, Stoneboro, PA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Taffy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      4 tb Butter
    2/3 c  Molasses. (clipping has 2-3,
           -but I think it's 2/3)
  1 1/3 c  Sugar (clipping says 1 1-3
           -c. sugar..)
      1 c  Water
 
  Notes: From Ruby Williams' file; newspaper clipping. Date unknown ('50s?
  earlier?)
  
  Put butter in saucepan and when melted add sugar, molasses and water. Stir
  until sugar is dissolved, and let boil without stirring until mixture will
  form a very soft ball that will just keep its shape when tried in cold
  water.  Turn out on a cold platter or agate tray, and as mixture cools
  around sides fold toward center.  When cool enough to handle, pull until
  porous and light colored with tips of fingers and thumbs. Be careful not to
  squeeze it in the hand.  Cut in small pieces with large scissors or a sharp
  knife and arrange on slightly buttered plates, or wrap in wax paper. A few
  srops of oil of peppermint, clove or cinnamon may be added during the
  pulling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Taffy (Pull Candy)
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Molasses
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Soda
 
  Combine all ingredients and boil until hard ball stage. Wet a shallow pan
  and pour in candy. When cool enough to handle, pull until light a color as
  desired is reached. Twist and cut into sticks.
  
  Recipe by: Found in: Talk About Good II Shared by: Scott Ward
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Molasses Taffy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Molasses
      2 ts Vinegar
    1/8 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Baking soda
 
  Boil molasses, sugar, and vinegar to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F). Remove
  from fire.  Add butter, baking soda, and salt. Stir only enough to blend.
  Pour into well-buttered pan. When cool pull until light and porous. Cut in
  1-inch pieces. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Moravian Mints
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Powdered Sugar
      1 c  Boiling Water
     12 dr Peppermint Oil
           * Or:
     12 dr Wintergreen Oil
 
  Boil sugar and water until when dropped in cold water it forms a soft ball.
  Add the mint oil, remove from stove and beat until it thickens. Then drop
  from spoon in thin patties on buttered or oiled paper. If wintergreen is
  used, color with red or green junket or food coloring. Source: Pennsylvania
  Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Mr Pibb Pralines
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
      1 c  Sugar, Granulated
      1 c  Brown Sugar, Dark, Packed
      1 c  Mr. Pibb
      1 c  Marshmallows, Miniature
           Pecan Halves *
 
  *  Use 2 to 3 cups of pecan halves.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Cook sugars and Mr. Pibb in a saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly,
  then gradually birng to the soft ball stage (240 degrees F on candy
  thermometer).  Remove mixture from heat; stir in marshmallows and pecans.
  Mix vigorously until marshmallows dissolve. Quickly drop by tablespoon on
  wax paper to cool. Makes 2 dozen pralines. NOTE: If Mr Pibb is not
  available in your area, use Dr. Pepper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Never-Fail Cream Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 25
 
    2/3 c  Cream
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Corn syrup
      4 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Walnuts or Pecans
 
  Mix together cream, sugar, salt and syrup. Cook slowly, stirring
  constantly, until mixture boils. Cover and cook 3 minutes. Remove cover;
  cook, stirring occasionally until soft ball forms in cold water, 236 to
  238-degrees. Remove from heat; add butter. Cool; beat until candy becomes
  dull. Add vanilla and nuts; pour into buttered pan. Cut into squares when
  firm. Yield: 25 pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: No Bake Special K Candies
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Cocoa
    1/2 c  Peanut Butter
      3 c  Oatmeal Or:
      1 c  Coconut
 
  Mix butter, sugar, water and cocoa together.  Bring to a boil for 30
  seconds.  Remove from fire and add peanut butter, oatmeal or coconut. Drop
  on wax paper and let harden.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: No-Cook Peanut Butter Balls
 Categories: Candies, Kids
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
      1 c  Light corn syrup
  1 1/2 c  Dry powdered milk
  1 1/2 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
      1 lg Bowl and a wooden spoon
           Paper plates and pencils
 
  Help the children measure the peanut butter, corn syrup, dry powdered milk,
  and confectioners sugar into the large bowl. They can take turns stirring
  with the wooden spoon until everything is mixed and a stiff dough forms.
  
  Give everyone a paper plate and a pencil. Each child should write his or
  her name on the bottom of the plate. Make sure they hold their pencils
  correctly and use uppercase and lower case letters.
  
  Put a portion of dough on each plate. The children can shape it into
  bite-sized balls by pinching off pieces and rolling them between their
  hands.
  
  Smaller children who cannot make balls can make snakes. Then they can cut
  the snakes into segments (with an adults help) to make bite-sized pieces.
  
  Leave the peanut butter balls on the children's plates and refrigerate them
  until firm, about 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Northwestern Apricot Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2    (5-1/2 oz) pkgs. dried
           -apricots (2 cups)
      1 c  Warm water
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/2    To 2/3 c. chopped or
           -slivered almonds, or
           -chopped walnuts
    1/3 c  Confectioners sugar (for
           -rolling)
 
  Remove any stems or blemishes from apricots.  Soak in warm water 1 hour,
  then cook slowly in same water until very tender, stirring to avoid
  scorching. Put through a food mill or sieve.  Cook apricot pulp until thick
  in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring frequently to avoid scorching.
  
  Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt and add to apricot pulp.  Cook until very
  thick, stirring constantly.
  
  Add gelatin, which has been softened in cold water.  Stir until gelatin is
  dissolved and cook until mixture is again thick.  Remove from heat.
  
  Mix in almonds.  Turn into a 9 x 7" shallow glass dish that has been rinsed
  with cold water.  Let stand 24 hours.
  
  Cut candy in rectangular pieces (about 60) and roll in confectioners sugar.
  Let stand on rack until outside has dried (texture should be slightly
  chewy.)  Store in covered container.  Makes about 1 pound, 12 ounces,
  depending on amount of nuts used.
  
  From: Choice Candy From Your Own Kitchen Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Northwestern Apple Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      4    To 5 unpeeled apples
      2 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar (for
           -rolling)
 
  Wash apples; without peeling or coring, cut in small pieces.  Cook until
  very tender in just enough water to avoid scorching.  Put through a food
  mill or sieve and measure 2 cups pulp into a 2 quart heavy saucepan. Cook
  until thick, stirring often.
  
  Soften gelatin in cold water. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt; add to apple
  pulp.  Cook again over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is very
  thick.  Add gelatin; stir until gelatin is dissolved and mixture is again
  thick.  Remove from heat.
  
  Stir in walnuts, lemon peel, and juice.  Turn into an 8" square shallow
  glas dish that has been rinsed with cold wate.  Let stand 24 hours.
  
  Cut rectangles (about 60).  Roll in confectioners sugar, and place on rack
  until outside is dry.  Store in covered container.   Makes about 1 pound 12
  ounces.
  
  Note: You can use 2 cups sweetened canned applesauce to make this
  confection, but reduce the amount of sugar from 2 to 1-1/3 cups.
  
  From: Choice Candy From Your Own Kitchen Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Nutted Caramel Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Dairy caramels
      2 tb Hot water
      2 qt Popcorn (to 2 1/2 qt)
      1 c  Mixed salted nuts
    1/2 c  Salted peanuts
 
  DIRECTIONS: Day before: In covered double boiler, heat caramels with water,
  stirring frequently, till smooth.
  
  In a large bowl, toss popcorn with nuts.
  
  Pour melted caramels over popcorn; toss until well coated. With buttered
  hands, form at once into about 17 2 1/2" balls or 35 1 1/4" balls. Insert
  wooden skewers, lollipop fashion, if desired. Wrap each in saran; store at
  room temperature until served next day.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Nutty Chocolate Mint Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings: 12
 
      7 oz Marshmallow Cream, (1 Jar)
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips
    1/2 c  Chopped Nuts
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
 
  In heavy gauge saucepan, combine marshmallow cream, sugar, evaporated milk,
  butter and salt.  Bring to a FULL ROLLING BOIL over medium heat, stirring
  constantly.  Remove from heat.  Add Mint-Chocolate chips; stir until chips
  are melted and mixture is smooth.  Add nuts and vanilla extract. Pour into
  foil-lined 8-inch square pan.  Chill until firm, about 2 hours. Cut into
  1-inch squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Oat Brittle
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Flaked oat cereal, uncooked
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      2 tb Melted butter
 
  Caramelize sugar.  Stir constantly.  Remove from fire immediately. Stir in
  the oat cereal quickly.  Add salt, baking soda, and butter. Pour onto
  well-buttered baking sheet.  Stretch and pull by means of spatulas into a
  very thin sheet. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Oh Henry Bars
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
MMMMM-------------------------------BASE------------------------------------
      4 c  Oats; quick cooking
    1/2 c  Sugar; granulated
      1 c  Sugar; brown, packed
      1 c  Butter; melted

MMMMM-----------------------------TOPPING----------------------------------
      1 pk Chocolate chips;-6 oz.
      1 c  Peanut butter; crunchy
 
  To make Base: Combine oats and sugars in large bowl. Add melted butter and
  mix well. Press into greased 9X13" pan and bake in preheated 350F oven for
  15 to 20 minutes. Cool for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare topping. Melt
  together chocolate chips and peanut butter, stirring to blend. Spread on
  top of cooked cookie base and refrigerate for 1 hour. Cut into squares
  before serving. Yield: 3 dozen
  
  Source: _The Harrowsmith Country Life Baking Book_ posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Old Fashioned Caramels
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
  2 1/2 tb Butter
      2 c  Brown Sugar
      2 tb Molasses
    1/2 c  Condensed Milk
      4 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped Nuts
 
  Melt the butter, add the sugar, molasses and the milk and bring to a boil.
  Cut the chocolate in small pieces and add, stirring constantly until the
  chocolate is melted. Boil until the caramel forms a soft ball when dropped
  in cold water. Add the extract and the nuts and pour into a greased pan.
  Cool a little and when fairly firm, cut in squares. Source: Pennsylvania
  Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: One Bowl Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Cyberealm, Candies
   Servings: 24
 
      1 pk 8 squares semisweet chocolat
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  1. Microwave chocolate and milk in 1 1/2 quart microwavable bowl on high
  for 2 minutes, stirring after 1 minute. Stir until chocolate is completely
  melted and smooth.
  
  2. Stir in vanilla, salt and walnuts. Spread in greased 8 x 4 or 9 x 5 inch
  loaf pan. Refrigerate until firm, about 2 hours; cut into small squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Opera Vanilla Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
  3 1/2 lb Sugar
      1 qt Cream
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2    Caramel recipe
    1/2 lb Nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Boil sugar, cream of tartar and cream to soft ball stage and stir to
  prevent scorching. Add vanilla. Pour onto plate rinsed with cold water but
  do not scrape pan. When cool beat unitl it loses  it's gloss. Knead and
  form into loaves. Let stand over night, roll in warm caramels, nuts,
  caramel and finally nuts. When caramel is hard cut into slices.
  
  Source: Miss Maurine Catlin, Henrietta Grange, Lorain County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Orange Apricot Balls
 Categories: Candies, Alcohol
   Servings: 25
 
    1/3 c  Finely chopped dried
           -apricots
      3 tb Grand Marnier
           -(orange-flavored liqueur)
      2 c  Ground vanilla wafers
    1/2 c  Plus 2 T confectioner's
           -sugar
    1/4 c  Finely choped slivered
           -almonds, toasted
      2 tb Frozen orange juice
           -concentrate, thawed
 
  Combine apricots and Grand Marnier in small bowl, let stand at least 1 hour
  to soften.  In medium bowl, combine vanilla wafers, 1/2 c confectioner's
  sugar and almonds.  Stir in apricots with liquid and orange juice
  concentrate.  Blend well.  Form 1-inch balls.  Roll balls in 2 T
  confectioner's sugar.  Place in airtight container for at least 2 days for
  flavors to develop; refrigerate for longer storage.  If desired, roll in
  additional confectioner's sugar before serving. Orange-apricot balls will
  keep for several weeks in the refrigerator. Allow to come to room
  temperature before serving.  Makes 25.
  
  Source:  Safeway Preferred Customer News, December 1991
  
  Enjoy.
  
  Barbara
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Orange Gumdrops
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 72
 
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Light corn syrup
    3/4 c  Water
      1 pk (1 3/4-ounce) powdered fruit
           -pectin
    1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts Orange extract
      1 ts Finely shredded orange peel
      4    Drops yellow food coloring
      1    Drop red food coloring
           Sugar
 
  Line a 9x5x3-inch loaf pan with foil, extending foil over edges of the pan.
  
  Butter the foil; set pan aside.
  
  Butter the sides of a heavy 1 1/2-quart saucepan.  In the saucepan combine
  the 1 cup sugar and the corn syrup.  Cook over medium-high heat to boiling,
  stirring constantly with a wooden spoon to dissolve sugar. This should take
  about 10 minutes.  Avoid splashing mixture on sides of pan. Carefully clip
  candy thermometer to side of pan.
  
  Cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, till the thermometer
  registers 280 deg.F., soft-crack stage.  Mixture should boil at a moderate,
  steady rate over the entire surface.  Reaching soft-crack stage should take
  about 10 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, in a heavy 2-quart saucepan combine water, pectin, and baking
  soda. (Mixture will be foamy.)  Cook over high heat to boiling, stirring
  constantly. This should take about 2 minutes.  Remove saucepan from heat;
  set saucepan aside.
  
  When sugar mixture has reached soft-crack stage, remove the saucepan from
  heat; remove candy thermometer from saucepan.  Return pectin mixture to
  high heat; cook till mixture just begins to simmer.
  
  _Gradually_ pour the hot sugar mixture in a thin stream (slightly less than
  1/8-inch diameter) into the boiling pectin mixture, stirring constantly.
  This should take 1 to 2 minutes.  Cook, stirring constantly, 1 minute more.
  
  Remove saucepan from heat.  Stir in orange extract, orange peel, and yellow
  and red food colorings.  Pour candy mixture into prepared pan. Let stand
  about 2 hours or till firm.
  
  When firm, use foil to lift candy out of pan.  Use a buttered knive to cut
  candy into about 3/4-inch squares.  Roll squares in additional sugar. Store
  loosely covered.  Makes about 72 pieces.
  
  Cinnamon Gumdrops:  Prepare Orange Gumdrops as directed above, except
  substitute 3 drops oil of cinnamon and 7 drops red food coloring for the
  orange extract, orange peel, and yellow and red food colorings.
  
  Mint Gumdrops:  Prepare Orange Gumdrops as directed above, except
  substitute 3/4 teaspoon mint extract and 7 drops green food coloring for
  the orange extract, orange peel, and yellow and red food colorings.
  
  Lemon Gumdrops:  Prepare Orange Gumdrops as directed above, except
  substitute 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon extract, 1 teaspoon finely shredded lemon
  peel, and 7 drops yellow food coloring for the orange extract, orange peel,
  and yellow and red food colorings.
  
  Hope this helps. Kyosho
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Panocha
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  2 1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 ds Salt
      1 tb Corn Syrup
      1 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Nutmeats
 
  Combine sugar, syrup, salt, milk and butter. Cook, stirring only until
  sugar  dissolves, to soft ball stage (238 degrees). Cool without stirring,
  then add vanilla and heat until thick. Add nuts, and spread in greased pan.
  
  From Alvadore Church of Christ Cookbook, by Violet Chambers
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Passover Carrot Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 lb Grated carrots
      5 oz Fresh ginger root
      2 lb Sugar (white or brown, your
           -choice)
      4 tb Powdered sugar (at least)
    1/2 ts Powdered ginger (optional
           -for more heat)
      4 oz Slivered almonds (at least)
 
  Peel and grate ginger root. Combine carrots, ginger root and sugar in sauce
  pan. Heat SLOWLY until runny. Increase heat to medium-high remembering to
  stir. When mixture starts becoming very thick and foamy, stir constantly or
  mixture will burn. Somewhere between a hard ball and crack, stir in almonds
  and then quickly pour onto a damp chopping board or marble top. Spread
  approximately 11 x 11 inches. Cool 10 minutes and then cut into 1 -> 1 1/2
  inch squares Separate each piece and roll in powdered sugar. (For added
  zip, use a mixture of 1/2 tsp. powdered ginger to 4 tbs. of powdered
  sugar.) When cool, place in a glass apothecary jar with a little
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pastel Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 16
 
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Popcorn, unpopped
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
           Food coloring
 
  DIRECTIONS: Heat 1/4 cup vegetable oil in 4 quart kettle 3 minutes. Add
  popcorn. Cover loosely. Shake frequently over medium heat until popping
  stops. Mix corn syrup, sugar and salt. Tint with red or green food
  coloring. Flavor with green with wintergreen and red with peppermint. Add
  to corn, and stir over medium heat 3 to 5 minutes or until corn is
  completely coated. Butter hands and shape mixture in balls about 1 1/2"
  diameter. Wrap in saran.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Patience Loaf
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
      2 c  Milk
      4 c  Sugar; divided
      1 tb Butter
           Pecans; chopped
 
  Put the milk in a large stew pan and place over the fire.  In another
  vessel melt one cup of sugar and when melted add to milk and stir until
  thoroughly dissolved, then add remaining sugar and the butter.  Cook until
  a small amount dropped in water will form a good firm ball, one that can be
  rolled between the fingers.  Remove from fire, reserving 1/2 cup of the hot
  syrup (which is kept in hot water until needed) for a few minutes or until
  it cools a little.  Beat until creamy, roll in a damp cloth like date loaf
  and when stiff enough to hold its shape, spread with the hot syrup and roll
  it in chopped pecans.
  
                                          Mrs. Marion Wilkerson
                                          Comanche Study Club Cookbook
                                          Comanche, TX, 1927
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  White corn syrup
      1 c  Roasted, salted peanuts
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Soda
 
  1.  In 1 1/2 quart casserole, stir sugar and syrup together.  Heat 5 to 6
  minutes in small microwave. 2. Stir in peanuts. Heat for 4 to 5 minutes,
  stirring after 2 or 2 1/2 minutes. 3. Add butter and vanilla to syrup,
  blending well.  Heat for 2 or 3 minutes. Peanuts will be slightly browned
  and syrup very hot. 4. Add soda and stir gently until light and foamy. 5.
  Pour mixture onto lightly buttered cookie sheet.  Cool for 1 hour.
  
  When cool, break in to small pieces and store in airtight container. Ziplog
  bag is the best to store the candy in.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle - Micro
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  White Karo Syrup
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Salted, roasted Peanuts
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Baking Soda
 
  Use 4 cup Pyrex Measuring cup & short handled wooden spoon - leave in while
  cooking.
  
  Mix Syrup and Sugar thoroughly. Micro 4 minutes High power Add Peanuts.
  Micro 3-5 minutes on High or until light brown, usually takes at least 4
  minutes - watch carefully.
  
  Add Vanilla and butter. Micro 1/2 - 1 minutes unless brown enough. Take out
  and sprinkle soda. Stir well as this makes syrup foamy. Pour on Teflon or
  well-greased cooking sheet, spread very thin. Let cool and break apart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Corn syrup
      2 c  Sugar
      4 c  Peanuts
      1 tb Soda
 
  Mix water, syrup and sugar and bring to the boiling point. Add the peanuts;
  stir occasionally to prevent sticking. Cook until candy spins a long thread
  which breaks as soon as cool and will form in water a hard ball which
  breaks easily 294-degrees. Peanuts should be done when candy has cooked
  sufficiently. Add soda; stir thoroughly. Spread on buttered slab or dish to
  cool. It will then break easily into pieces. Pecans may be used instead of
  peanuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Peanuts (raw)
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Soda
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cook sugar, syrup and water until spins a thread. Add peanuts and cook over
  low heat until light brown. Remove from heat; add butter, soda and vanilla.
  Stir quickly. Pour on a buttered cookie sheet. Cool and break apart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Peanuts
 
  Caramelize sugar; remove from heat immediately. Add salt, soda, butter and
  peanuts; stir only until blended. Pour into well-buttered pan. Yield: 6
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Corn syrup
      1 c  Water
  1 1/2 tb Butter
      1    Pinch salt
      1 c  Peanuts
  1 1/2 ts Soda
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, syrup, water, butter and salt. Cover and cook 5 minutes.
  Uncover and cook until syrup begins to brown. Remove from heat; add
  peanuts, soda and vanilla. Pour quickly into well-buttered shallow pan.
  When cold break into pieces. Yield: 1 1/2 pounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  9
 
    1/2 c  Dark corn syrup
    1/4 c  Molasses
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 c  Salted peanuts
    1/8 ts Soda
 
  DIRECTIONS: Cook first 4 ingredients until blended. Stir in peanuts and
  boil until a small amount of mixture separates into hard threads when
  dropped in cold water (280-F). Stir in soda, and pour into a buttered
  shallow pan. When firm, break in pieces.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  2
 
  1 1/2 lb Sugar
    3/4 lb Glucose; or karo
      2 oz Butter
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    3/4 lb Peanuts
      1 ts Baking soda; heaping
    3/4 pt Water
 
  Put sugar, glucose and water on hot fire and stire until it commences to
  boil. Wash down sides of kettelt. Cover until it steams well. Remove cover
  and cook until it cracks when dropped in cold water. Put in peanuts,
  butter, stir constantly. Cook until peanuts are roasted and candy becomes a
  golden brown. Sometimes peanuts commence to pop, which indicates they are
  roasted sufficiently. Use raw peanuts. When peanuts are roasted, set off
  fire and stir vanilla in well. Have your soda dissolved in just a little
  water, using only enough to cover immediately. After adding vanilla, pour
  in dissolved soda and stir thoroughly. As soon as it is stirred thoroughly,
  pour out on warm greased plate or slab. Cost of making about 34 cents.
  Makes 2 pounds.
  
  Source: Margaret Foster, Keene Hill Grange, Coshocton County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Peanuts
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Chop peanuts.  Caramelize sugar.  Remove from fire immediately. Add salt,
  peanuts, baking soda, and butter.  Stir only until blended. Pour quickly in
  a thin sheet into well-buttered pan. Cut or break. The Household
  Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
      3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Light Karo

MMMMM------------------------COOK TO 230D.;ADD-----------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Raw peanuts

MMMMM-------------------REMOVE FROM HEAT;ADD QUICKLY------------------------
      1 tb Soda
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  In a heavy saucepan, combine sugar, water and Karo. Stir constantly until
  it threads. Add butter and peanuts slowly so that the mixture continues to
  boil. Cook slowly to 300 degrees, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat;
  quickly add soda and vanilla. (It will foam up.) Turn onto 2 buttered
  baking sheets or buttered marble slab. Stretch with fork. Cool. Break up.
  Makes about 3 lbs. Dolores McCann, OH
  
   Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Delights
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Chocolate chips
    1/3    Box graham crackers (22
           -crackers)
      1 c  Creamy peanut butter
      1 lb Powdered sugar
      1 c  MELTED butter
 
  Melt chcolate chips in top of a double boiler over low heat.  Crush graham
  crackers.  Combine with peanut butter and sugar.  Pour butter over and mix
  well.  Press into a greased 9x13" glass pan.  Spread with melted chocolate.
  Cut before choclate hardens completely.
  
  Shared by Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butterscotch Squares
 Categories: Cookies, Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Butter or oleo
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/3 c  Sifted flour
    2/3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
      1    6 oz pkg butterscotch pieces
    1/2 c  Chunk-styled peanut butter
      2 c  Corn flakes
 
  Cream oleo or butter and brown sugar. Stir in flour (mixture will be
  crunchy..will have to use your hands. Press in ungreased 13x9x2 in. baking
  pan. Bake in 350F oven for 15 minutes. In saucepan, combine sugar and corn
  syrup; heat to boiling. Remove from heat. Add butterscotch pieces and
  peanut butter; stir till chips are melted, Stir in corn flakes. Spread over
  baked layer. Cool; cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Pinwheels
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 48
 
    1/2 c  Cold Mashed Potatoes
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      4 c  Icing Sugar
      1 c  Peanut Butter
 
  In a medium mixing bowl, combine cold mashed potatoes with salt and
  vanilla. Add icing sugar, one cup at a time, beating after each addition.
  At first the mixture will be stiff and hard to handle but with beating it
  will become very runny. With the addition of the fourth cup, the mixture
  will firm up again. Turn half of the mixture on to a board that's been
  lightly dusted with icing; roll into a rectangle two inches thick. Spread
  with half of the peanut butter. Roll up from the short side, jelly-roll
  fashion. Repeat with rest of fondant. Refrigerate until firm; slice 1/4
  inch thick. Makes 4 dozen candies. From The Gazette, 91/02/27.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
    3/4 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
    3/4 c  Chopped peanuts, or other
           -nuts
 
  Servings: 2 pounds
  
  DIRECTIONS: Mix well: peanut butter, butter, corn syrup, vanilla and salt.
  Gradually stir in sugar. Knead until smooth. Gradually add nuts. Pack into
  an 8x8x2" pan. When firm, cut in squares.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Balls or Eggs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Margarine
      2 c  Peanut butter
      3 lb Confectioners' sugar
      3 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Package semi-sweet chocolate
           -chips
    1/4 lb Paraffin wax
 
  Cream margarine and peanut butter together.  Add sugar and vanilla.  Mix
  together and form desired shape.  Place on cookie sheets lined with wax
  paper and place in the refrigerator for about 10 minutes.
  
  Put toothpick into balls and dip into chocolate.  Put back on waxed paper
  and remove toothpick. You can also use a spoon to dip them.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Marshmallow Cups
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
  1 1/2 c  Peanut butter; smooth or
           -crunchy
      5 oz Semisweet chocolate; 5 sq
           -chopped
      2 tb Butter
      1 pk Marshamallows; miniature
 
  Line 2 muffins pans with 24 foil baking cups. Melt peanut butter, chocolate
  and butter over low heat or in microwave at Medium for 2 minutes. Stir
  until smooth. Fold in marshmallows. Spoon into baking cups; chill. MAKES
  ABOUT 24 CUPS
  
  SOURCE: "After School Treats" pamphlet from Kraft General Foods Canada
  posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Eggs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
      1 c  Margarine
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 lb Powdered sugar
  2 1/4 c  Peanut butter, chunky
 
  Cream margarine and cream cheese; add remaining ingredients and mix
  thoroughly.  Roll into small eggs or balls.  Place on cookie sheet on waxed
  paper and freeze about 2 hours. For chocolate, use chocolate chips and a
  small bar of parafin or chocolate coating melted on top of double boiler.
  After 2 hours remove peanut butter eggs from freezer and dip in melted
  chocolate.  Place on wax paper to cool.  Makes 12 dozen eggs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Chunky Peanut Butter
    1/2 c  Light Corn Syrup
      1 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Grease 2 large baking sheets. Place on wire racks. In heavy 1 1/2 quart
  saucepan, add first 3 ingredients, stiring constantly. Boil over medium
  heat. Cook with out stirring til mixture is 300 degrees on candy
  thermometer. Stir in peanut butter, blend well. Remove from heat. Quickly,
  but gently, stir in soda. Immediately pour onto cookie sheets. Don't
  spread. Cool for 3 to 5 minutes till cool enough to handle. With hands
  grasp candy by edges, lifting slightly, pull as thin as possible. Cool.
  Break into irregular pieces. Store in tightly covered container. Makes 1
  1/4 pounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
     12 oz Pkg peanut butter chips
     14 oz Can condensed milk
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Chopped peanuts (optional --
           -I leave these out)
     16 oz Pkg semi-sweet chocolate
           -chips
 
  Line an 8 inch (or you can use a 9x13 inch) pan with wax paper.
  
  Melt peanut butter chips, 6 oz condensed milk and 2 Tbsp butter, stirring
  occasionally.  Remove from heat.  Stir in peanuts.  Spread in pan.
  
  In another saucepan, melt chocolate chips, 4 oz condensed milk, and 2 Tbsp
  butter.  Spread on top of peanut butter mixture.  Chill 2 hours, until
  firm.
  
  Turn onto cutting board.  Peel off paper and cut int squares.  Store
  tightly covered.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Chews
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
           Bring to a rolling boil.
           -Remove from heat and add:
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Peanut butter
      3 c  Corn flakes
 
  Mix all ingedients and drop by teaspoonfulls on waxed paper.  Work Quickly
  before it cools.
  
  From: Lancaster Farming Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butterscotch Chews
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Peanut Butter
      6 oz Butterscotch Chips
      4 c  To 8 c cereal (Corn Flakes,
           -Wheatees, you name it)
 
  Slowly melt the peanut butter and the Butterscotch chips until creamy.
  Remove from heat and stir in cereal so that all pieces are as coated as
  desired (If you want it sweeter use less cereal if you want to stretch it
  out use more.)
  
  NOTE: Do not use Cholesteral free peanut butter. In order for the Chips to
  melt they need the oil of the peanut butter. I found this out the hard way,
  but I made the best of a bad situation by making buterscotch
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 c  Peanut butter
      2 c  Icing sugar
    1/4 c  Butter/margarine , softened
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/3 c  Grated Parowax (sealing wax)
 
  Mix first 4 ingredients together. Shape into 1 inch balls. (may be shaped
  into logs). Melt chocolate chips and wax in small heavy saucepan over low
  heat. Dip balls into choc/wax. Drain & place on waxed paper. Let cool and
  harden. ENJOY!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  White sugar
    1/2 c  Sweet milk
      2 lg Tbls. peanut butter
 
  Mix well and boil exactly 5 minutes. Beat until thick. Pour into buttered
  pans to cool.
  
  From the book "Treasured Mennonite Recipes" by the Mennonite Community
  Relief Sales Volume 1
  
  AR/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Bars
 Categories: Cookies, Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
    3/4 c  Butter
      2 c  Peanut butter
  1 1/2 c  Crushed graham crackers
      1 lb Powdered sugar
      6 oz Chocolate chips
      1 tb Crisco oil
 
  Mix first 4 ingredients - knead until smooth. Press into 9 x 13" pan. Melt
  chocolate chips in saucepan with oil. Spread over mixture in pan. Chill 1
  hour & cut into bars.
  
  (from Kathy Tanner)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Balls
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Gift
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Melted butter
      4 c  Powdered sugar
      3 c  Rice Krispies
     12 oz Chocolate chips
           Paraffin (1 sq. box)
 
  From: Marilla Ransdell, mother-in-law of Donna Ransdell, COOKING echo
  
  Mix the peanut butter, butter, sugar, and Krispies together and roll it
  into little balls about 1" in diameter.
  
  Melt the chocolate chips and paraffin  over a double boiler.
  
  Dip the balls in the melted chocolate chips and then let dry on a piece of
  waxed paper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      4 tb Peanut butter
 
  Cook sugar, milk and butter to softball stage. Add salt, vanilla and peanut
  butter and beat.
  
  Note: Should be turned out onto buttered plates.
  
  Source: Mrs. John Shelton, Mt. Nebo Grange, Columbiana County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Balls
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Desserts, Entertain
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Butter
      1 lb Creamy peanut butter
     12 oz Chocolate chips
      2 lb Powdered sugar
    1/3    Stick paraffin
           Whole walnuts
 
  Melt together butter and peanut butter in a large pan.  Once melted, remove
  from heat and add powdered sugar; mix well.  It will look like cookie
  dough. Roll into balls the size of large walnuts.
  
  In a double boiler, melt the chocolate chips along with approximately 1/3
  to 1/2 a stick of paraffin.
  
  Dip balls with a toothpick into chocolate mixture and put on wax paper.
  Remove the toothpick and cover the hole with a whole walnut piece.
  
  Makes:  approx. 100 balls Source: Jean Paluso, courtesy Debbie Carlson -
  Cooking Echo
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 lb Peanut butter
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Marshmallows
           Few grains salt
 
  Cook sugar, butter, milk, and salt to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Add
  the marshmallows and peanut butter just before removing from the fire. Do
  not stir.  Cool to room temperature. Add flavoring. Beat until mixture is
  creamy, thick, and will hold its shape when dropped from a teaspoon. Pour
  into well-buttered, shallow pan.  Cut in squares. Mary Miller, Robinson,
  PA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Shelled peanuts
      2 c  Granulated sugar
 
  Chop the peanuts fine.  Put the sugar into a skillet and stir constantly
  until it is all melted.  Then add the peanuts and pour at once into a
  buttered pan.  When cold, break into pieces.
  
  The finely chopped peanuts make, of course, a much more uniformly nutty
  candy than the usual peanut brittle.  The recipe makes about one pound of
  candy.             --Mry Leize Simons
  
  From: 200 Years of Charleston Cooking 1930 Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Candy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Corn sirup
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Shelled peanuts
      1 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Combine sugar, sirup, water, butter, and salt.  Cover and cook 5 minutes.
  Uncover and cook until sirup begins to brown.  Remove from fire. Add
  peanuts, baking soda, and flavoring.  Pour quickly into well-buttered,
  shallow pan.  When cold cut in squares. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Mojhy
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      1 c  Molasses Or:
      1 c  Syrup
      1 c  Water
      2 oz Butter
    3/4 lb Shelled Peanuts
 
  To the sugar, add the molasses and water. Boil until it hardens when
  dropped in cold water. Just before taking from the fire add the butter and
  the peanuts and mix well. Pour onto well-buttered tins. Source:
  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut Rocky Road
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 36
 
      2 pk Chocolate chips,semisweet
  1 1/2 c  Peanuts,dry-roasted,chopped
      2 c  Marshmallows,miniature
 
  Melt chocolate over hot water. Fold in peanuts and marshmallows. Spoon in
  mounds on waxed paper and chill until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peanut-Chocolate Fluff Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  3
 
MMMMM-----------------------PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE----------------------------
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Whipped marshmallow creme
    1/2 c  Peanut butter

MMMMM-------------------------CHOCOLATE FUDGE------------------------------
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 c  Whipped marshmallow creme
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Servings: about 3 pounds
  
  DIRECTIONS: Peanut Butter Fudge: Grease 10 by 7 inch baking pan; set aside.
  (If making only one kind of fudge, use 8 by 8 inch baking pan.)
  
  Into 6 quart heavy saucepan, measure sugar, milk and salt. Over medium
  heat,heat to boiling, stirring constantly.
  
  With candy thermometer in place, cook, without stirring, until temperature
  reaches 235-F or soft ball stage (when a small amount of mixture dropped
  into very cold water forms a ball which flattens on removal from water).
  Remove saucepan from heat.
  
  Without stirring, allow mixture to cool to 110-F or lukewarm, about 45
  minutes (bottom of pan will feel comfortably warm).
  
  Stir in marshmallow creme and peanut butter. With wooden spoon, beat
  mixture until it holds its shape and loses some of its gloss, about 5 to 7
  minutes. Turn fudge into prepared pan. Allow fudge to set, about 30
  minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, prepare Chocolate Fudge. Pour chocolate layer over peanut butter
  layer; allow to set completely.
  
  Chocolate Fudge: Into 6 quart heavy saucepan measure sugar, cocoa and salt.
  Over medium heat,gradually add milk and butter or margarine. Stirring
  constantly, heat to boiling.
  
  With candy thermometer in place, cook, without stirring, until temperature
  reaches 235-F or soft ball stage (when a small amount of mixture dropped
  into very cold water forms a ball which flattens on removal from water).
  Remove saucepan from heat.
  
  Without stirring, allow mixture to cool to 110-F or lukewarm, about 45
  minutes (bottom of pan will feel comfortably warm).
  
  Stir in marshmallow creme and vanilla. With wooden spoon, beat mixture
  until it holds its shape and loses some of its gloss, about 5 to 7 minutes.
  Turn into prepared pan.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's Green Bay Press
  Gazette (newspaper), December 13, 1978
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pecan Penuche
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 10
 
      2 c  Dark Brown Sugar, Firm Pack
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
  2 1/2 tb Butter, In Small Pieces
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Pecans, Chopped
 
  Oil a jelly-roll pan or an 8 X 8-inch pan.  Combine the sugar, milk and
  salt in a heavy 3-quart pot, stirring to mix well. Place over medium heat
  and bring to a boil, stirring constantly, until the sugar dissolves. Cove
  and let boil for 2 to 3 minutes. Uncover and wash down the sides of the pot
  with a pastry brush dipped in cold water.  Continue to boil, over medium
  heat, to the firm ball stage (240-250F.), stirring only if it starts to
  burn. Remove from the heat and immediately place the pot in a larger pot
  filled with cold water; this will stop the cooking process and bring the
  temperature down. Drop in the butter and let cool slightly, without
  stirring. beat until it starts to thicken, add the vanilla and the pecans
  and continue to beat until the candy loses some of its gloss. Spread evenly
  in the pan and mark into squares.  When firm, cut into pieces and store in
  an airtight container. From Fannie Farmer's New Cookbook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pecan Pralines
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb White corn syrup
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Combine sugar, buttermilk, syrup and soda. Cook slowly in a heavy pot until
  the mixture forms a soft ball, about 20 minutes. Be sure to use candy
  thermometer (235 degrees). Remove from heat. Add butter, vanilla and
  pecans. Beat mixture until smooth and creamy using a wooden spoon. Drop by
  tablespoonful onto waxed paper. If candy does not harden within 10 minutes
  of dropping, it can be cooked a few minutes more. Yield: 2 dz. Small
  pieces.
  
  Found in: River Road Recipes II Recipe by: Mrs. Earl Geroy Shared by: Scott
  Ward
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pecan Pralines
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Light brown sugar
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Chopped pecans
      5 tb Water
      1 tb Butter
 
  Combine sugar, water, and butter.  When mixture begins to boil rapidly, add
  pecans.  Boil stirring constantly, until mixture forms large bubbles on top
  and looks sugary.  Remove from fire. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto
  well-buttered marble slab or platter. Virginia Cooper, New Orleans, LA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pecan Roll
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  White corn sirup
  1 1/2 c  Pecans
      1 c  Light brown sugar
      1 c  Cream
 
  Boil cream, sugar, and sirup to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F). Cool to room
  temperature.  Beat until creamy.  Turn onto board dusted with powdered
  sugar.  Knead until firm.  Shape into a roll, and cover outside with pecan
  meats.  Put in cool place to harden. Slice when firm, using a sharp knife.
  Finely chopped pecan meats may be worked through the candy while it is
  being kneaded if desired. Virginia Cooper, New Orleans, LA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Penoche
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Cream
      2 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Coconut
    1/3 c  Chopped dates
    1/3 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Combine sugar, cream, and butter.  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).
  Remove from fire.  Cool to room temperature. Beat until creamy. Add fruit,
  coconut, and nuts.  Continue beating until mixture will hold its shape.
  Pour into well-buttered, shallow pan. Cut in squares. Myrtle Howell,
  Gillett, WI.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Penuche
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 tb Butter
      2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Cream
    1/8 ts Baking soda
 
  Melt butter, add sugars and mix. Add soda and cook to slft ball stage.
  Remove from stove and place in pan of cold water. When cool beat until
  stiff. Pour into buttered pan and cut in squares. Nuts may be added. This
  is a moulding fudge and makes nice Easter eggs or chocolate bars when
  covered with chocolate.
  
  Source: Mrs. Avenella Corfman, Mahoning Valley Grange, Trumbull
     County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Penuche
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  4
 
      3 c  Firmly packed light brown
           -sugar
    1/4 c  Light or dark corn syrup
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter/margerine
      1 ts Vanilla extract
     50    Pecan halves
 
  Combine sugar, corn syrup, milk, salt and butter in a saucepan. Cook over
  moderately high heat (300 F.), stirring constantly, until mixture boils.
  Continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until a candy thermometer
  registers 238 F., or a small amount of mixture forms a soft ball when
  dropped into cold water. Cool to 110 F. (lukewarm). Add vanilla and beat
  until candy thickens enough to hold its shape when a small amount is
  dropped from a spoon onto waxed paper or until it loses its gloss. Quickly
  pour into a buttered 8--inch square cake pan. Place pecans in rows on top
  of candy. Chill in refrigerator until firm. When firm, cut candy into 1
  1/2--inch squares. Makes about 4 dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peppermint Fudge Squares
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Marshmallows (mini's)
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 ts Peppermint extract
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Mix milk, sugar, butter and salt in a pot.  Bring to a full boil, then boil
  for 5 minutes stirring constantly.  Remove from heat.  Add marshmallows,
  chocolate chips, flavoring and walnuts.  Stir vigorously until marshmallows
  are melted and thoroughly blended.  Pour into 8 inch square pan. Chill.
  Makes about 2 pounds.
  
  Origin:  My Mom, Shirley Whittaker, Richmond B.C. Canada. Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens  Oct/91
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peppermint Jelly Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 tb Water
      2    (3 oz) packages liquid fruit
           -pectin
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 ts Peppermint extract
      3    Drops green food color
           Sugar or coarse sugar
 
  For best results, follow the directions carefully to avoid undercooking the
  mixtures.  No candy thermometer is necessary for this old-fashioned candy
  shop candy.
  
  Line 8 inch square pan with foil, butter foil.  In small saucepan, combine
  water and pectin.  Stir in baking soda.  In medium saucepan, combine 1 cup
  sugar and corn syrup.  Cook both mixtures over high heat until foam starts
  to disappear on pectin mixture and sugar mixture comes to full rolling boil
  (one that cannot be stirred down), about 3 to 5 minutes,stirring both
  constantly. Slowly pour pectin mixture into sugar mixture, stirring
  constantly.  Continue to boil for 2 minutes, stirring constantly.  Remove
  from heat; stir in peppermint extract and food color. Pour into foil-lined
  pan.  Cool until firm.
  
  Remove candy from pan by lifting foil.  With wet knife or scissors,cut into
  small pieces or desired shapes.  Roll in sugar.  Store loosely covered.
  
  Yield: 64 candies Source: Pillsbury, Family Christmas Cookbook Posted by
  Linda Davis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Peppermint Creams
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Corn syrup; white
      7 dr Peppermint
      1 c  Water
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Boil to soft ball. Drop on wax paper from spoon.
  
  Source: Loleta Hales, Acma Grange, Lorain County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Petite Boules
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      1 lb White chocolate, finely
           -chopped
      3 tb Frangelico liqueur
     10 oz Semisweet chocolate, finely
           -chopped
      1 c  Toasted hazelnuts, ground
 
  1.   Heat cream to the boiling point; add white chocolate and stir with a
  wooden spoon until chocolate is completely melted and mixture is smooth.
  
  2.   Cool 15 minutes and stir in Frangelico.  Transfer to shallow dish and
  cool in refrigerator 2 hours.
  
  3.   When filling is firm, remove by teaspoonfuls and roll into balls. Let
  sit for 30 minutes on parchment paper.
  
  4.   Melt semisweet chocolate over hot water until half melted; remove from
  heat and stir with wooden spoon until completely smooth.  Cool to 89
  degrees.
  
  5.   Place ground hazelnuts in a flat dish; dip white chocolate centers in
  semisweet chocolate, then roll in hazelnuts. Transfer to a baking sheet
  lined with parchment paper.
  
  6.   Cover candies with plastic wrap and dry at room temperature overnight
  before storing in airtight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pina Colada Squares
 Categories: Candies, Cookies
   Servings: 30
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      1    Egg, seperated
    1/4 c  Milk, 2% butter fat or lower
      1 cn 14 ounce unsweetened crushed
           -pineapple.
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 ts Rum extract
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      1 tb Sugar, white
      1 c  Coconut
 
  BOTTOM LAYER: Combine flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in butter or
  margarine until mixture is crumbly. Beat egg yolk and milk together with a
  fork. Stir into crumbs. Press evenly onto bottom of a lightly greased 8
  inch pan (square). MIDDLE LAYER: Combine crushed pineapple and its juice
  and cornstarch in a saucepan. Mix well. Stir-cook over medium heat until
  mixture boils and thickens. Stir in rum extract and vanilla. Pour over
  first layer. TOP LAYER: Beat egg white and cream of tartar until foamy. Add
  sugar and beat until soft peaks form. Fold in coconut. Spread evenly and
  carefully over pineapple layer. Press down lightly with a fork. Bake in a
  180C (350F) oven for 30 minutes until top is golden brown. Cool and cut
  into squares. Makes 30 squares - 3 * 4 cm (1 1/4 * 1 1/2 inches) Each
  serving: 2 squares; 1 fruit and vegetable choice; 1 fat and oil choice; 11g
  carbohydrate; 2g protein; 5g fat; 410 kilojoules; 97 calories.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pineapple Cream Candy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Sugar; white
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Pineapple; pulp & juice
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Butter
     12 ea Marshmallows
      1 c  Nut meats
 
  Cook sugar and pineapple to soft ball stage. Add butter, remove from fire
  and beat in marshmallows, nuts and extract. Beat until creamy.
  
  Source: Florence E. Harper, Plymouth Grange, Ashtabula County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pinto Bean Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  8
 
    2/3 c  Canned milk (or light cream)
  1 1/2 c  Mini marshmallows
  1 1/2 c  Strained pinto beans
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Nuts
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate chips
 
  Combine sugar and milk in kettle.  Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Add
  remaining ingredients and stir until marshmallows melt. Pour into buttered
  pan; cool and cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pistachio Swirl Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings: 50
 
      1 pk (3-oz.) cream cheese
      1 cn (14-oz.) sweetened condensed
           -milk, divided
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 pk (6-oz. each) semisweet
           -chocolate pieces
      1 tb Sweet butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Coarsely chopped pistachio
           -nuts
 
  Place cream cheese in small glass bowl of electric mixer or in a 1-quart
  microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on HIGH (100%) 15 to 25 seconds or until
  cream cheese has softened. Add 2 tablespoons of the sweetened condensed
  milk and the vanilla. Beat on low speed just until mixture is smooth; set
  aside.
  
  Place remaining sweetened condensed milk, semisweet chocolate and butter in
  a 2 1/2-quart microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on medium (50%) 2 to 3 1/2
  minutes or until mixture can be stirred smooth and is glossy, stirring
  twice. Stir in pistachio nuts.
  
  Spread chocolate mixture evenly into prepared pan. Drop cream cheese
  mixture, by spoonfuls, over chocolate; swirl lightly over chocolate. Let
  stand until firm or place in refrigerator. Cut into 25 even squares by
  making 4 lengthwise and 4 crosswise cuts equidistant from each other, then
  cut each square diagonally in half. Store in airtight container with waxed
  paper between layers. Keeps best if refrigerated. Makes 50.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [1,001 HOME IDEAS, FEBRUARY 1990]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pistachio Turkish Delight
 Categories: Candies, Gift
   Servings: 20
 
      2 c  Sugar
      3 c  Water
    1/4 ts Tartaric acid
    3/4 c  Cornflour
  1 3/4 c  Icing sugar mixture
      1 ts Rosewater
      2    Drops pink food colouring
    1/2 c  Shelled pistachios
    1/2 c  Cornflour, extra
    1/2 c  Icing sugar, extra
 
  Combine sugar and 1/2 cup water in saucepan, stir over low heat until sugar
  is dissolved. Bring to the boil, reduce heat until syrup reaches 115
  degrees C when tested with a sweets thermometer or until syrup forms a soft
  ball when tested in a cup of cold water. Add tartaric acid, remove from
  heat.
  
  Combine cornflour and sifted icing sugar in a bowl, add 1/2 cup water, stir
  until smooth. Bring remaining water to the boil in small saucepan, whisk
  into the cornflour mixture. Return mixture to saucepan, stir over medium
  heat until mixture boils and thickens. Add syrup gradually, stirring
  constantly over heat. Continue to boil gently for 30 minutes, without
  stirring. Add rosewater, food colouring and pistachios. Pour mixture into
  greased 20 cm square pan. Stand for several hours until set. Cut into
  squares using a wet knife. Toss squares in combined sifted cornflour and
  icing sugar. Store in airtight container.
  
  Makes about 20.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 15
 
      5 qt Popped corn
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Measure popped corn into large heat-proof bowl. Place in a 300 degree to
  325 degree F. oven to keep hot and crisp. Combine sugar, corn syrup, water,
  salt, and vinegar in a small saucepan. Cook, covering with a tight lid the
  first few minutes of cooking to dissolve sugar, then remove lid and place
  thermometer in pan. Cook to 250 degrees. Add vanilla. Slowly pour syrup
  over hot popped corn. Mix well until all corn is well coated. Shape into
  balls. Makes 15 to 20 balls.
  
  Recipe from:Ideals Candy Cookbook by Mildred Brand Copyright-MCMLXXIX By
  Mildred Brand, Milwaukee, Wis. 53201
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 lb Popcorn
    2/3 c  Corn sirup
      2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Boiling water
      2 ts Cream of tartar
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Melted butter
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Baking soda
 
  Prize winning recipe
  
  Pop corn.  Place in large pan.  Combine sirup, sugar, water, and vinegar.
  Heat to boiling.  Add cream of tartar.  Boil to soft crack stage (275 - 280
  F).  Remove from fire.  Add butter, baking soda, and flavoring. Pour over
  popcorn.  Form into balls. Winifred J. Wells, Mooers, N.Y.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Karo; white
           Butter; size of walnut
    1/4 ts Salt
           Soda; pinch
 
  Boil sugar, vinegar, syrup and butter with a little water until it forms
  soft ball in cold water. Sift a little salt on freshly popper corn. Add
  pinch of soda to syrup just before pouring over corn. Wet handls with water
  before pressing each ball to prevent sticking.
  
  Source: Mrs. Henry Bailey, Rock Springs Grange, Meigs County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 36
 
    1/2 pt Karo syrup
  1 1/2 pt Brown sugar
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vinegar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      6 qt Popcorn; about
 
  Heat mixture until it harders when dropped in water.  Move to back of
  stove, add baking soda dissolved in 1 T. water, and pout over frech
  popcorn. Will make about 3 dozen balls. Source: Emma Harrington, Brinfield
  Grange, Portage County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Balls #2
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings: 36
 
    1/2 pt Karo syrup
  1 1/2 pt Brown sugar
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vinegar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      6 qt Popcorn; about
 
  Heat mixture until it harders when dropped in water.  Move to back of
  stove, add baking soda dissolved in 1 T. water, and pout over frech
  popcorn. Will make about 3 dozen balls.
  
  Source: Emma Harrington, Brinfield Grange, Portage County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Crunch
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 40
 
      2 qt Popped corn
  1 1/2 c  Pecan halves
    2/3 c  Whole almonds
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      1 c  Margarine
           Dipping Chocolate (optional)
 
  Mix together popped corn and nuts. In a saucepan, combine sugar, corn
  syrup, and margarine. Bring to a boil, and boil 10 to 15 minutes, stirring
  constantly. When mixture turns light caramel in color, remove from heat,
  and stir in popcorn and nuts. Spread out on a lightly greased cookie sheet.
  Break apart when cool. Can be dipped or spread with chocolate, if desired.
  Makes about 40 pieces.
  
  Recipe from:Ideals Candy Cookbook by Mildred Brand Copyright-MCMLXXIX By
  Mildred Brand, Milwaukee, Wis. 53201
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Crackles
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Molasses
      1 c  Sugar
      3 qt Popped corn
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Butter
 
  Melt butter.  Add sugar, salt, and molasses.  boil to the hard crack stage
  (285 - 290 F).  Pour over corn, stir while pouring. Spread in thin layer to
  cool.  Break in pieces. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Squares
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      8 c  Popped corn
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Corn sirup
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Salt
 
  Put popped corn through coarse knife of food chopper.  Boil sugar, sirup,
  salt, and water to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F). Add butter. Boil to hard
  crack stage (285 - 290 F).  Add popped corn;p stir until well blended.
  Return to fire for a minute to loosen mixture. Pour onto well-buttered
  baking sheet. Roll with rolling pin as thin as possible. Cut in squares.
  Grace Viall Gray, Glen Ellyn, IL.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Popcorn Surprises
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings: 50
 
      8 c  Popped corn
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/3 c  Hot water
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Chocolate coating
 
  Measure popped corn into a large bowl. In a small saucepan, combine sugar,
  syrup, water, and salt. Cover tightly and bring to a rolling boil. Remove
  lid and add thermometer. Cook to 270 degrees; remove from heat and stir in
  vanilla. Pour cooked syrup over the popped corn, stirring to coat corn.
  Cool completely, then run through a food chopper. Melt chocolate coating in
  top of double boiler. Stir ground popcorn into chocolate, using as much
  popcorn as the chocolate will hold. Pack into chocolate lined molds or roll
  out between waxed paper and cut into shapes with cookie cutters or knives.
  Makes about 50 pieces.
  
  Recipe from:Ideals Candy Cookbook by Mildred Brand Copyright-MCMLXXIX By
  Mildred Brand, Milwaukee, Wis. 53201
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Potato Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Potatoes, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      3 tb Butter or regular margarine
    1/3 c  Unseasoned mashed potatoes
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ds Salt
      1 lb Confectioners sugar
      1 ts To 2 ts milk
           Flaked coconut
           Chopped walnuts
 
  Melt chocolate and butter in saucepan over low heat.  Remove from heat. Add
  mashed potatoes, vanilla and salt.  Mix well.  Sift confectioners sugar
  into large bowl. Add chocolate mixture, mixing well. Mixture will be
  crumbly. Add 1-2 tsp milk, if necessary, to make a mixture that can be
  kneaded. Turn out on board and knead until smooth. Shape mixture into two
  rolls, 12 inches long and 1-1/4 inch in diameter. Roll in coconut or
  walnuts. Cut into 1/2 inch thick slices. Makes 48 pieces. Origin: Farm
  Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Praline Popcorn Crunch
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
     12 c  Popped popcorn
      1 c  Firm-pack brown sugar
    1/2 c  Margarine
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Pecan halves
 
  Place popcorn in greased 15x10 baking pan.  In a 1 1/2 quart saucepan,
  combine brown sugar, margarine and honey.  Cook over medium heat until
  boiling, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon.  Continue cooking at a
  gentle boil for 5 minutes.  Remove from heat.  Stir in baking soda and
  vanilla.  Slowly pour mixture over popped corn.  Add pecans and stir gently
  until pecans and popcorn are evenly coated.
  
  Bake at 300 F for 15 minutes.  Stir and bake 5 minutes more.  Turn out on
  waxed paper.  Cool, break into chunks and store in tightly covered
  container.  Makes about 12 cups.
  
  From: Texas Dept of Agriculture Posted by: Sheila Exner - October 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pralines
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Pecan halves
 
  Combine sugar, soda and buttermilk in a med. sized saucepan.  Place over
  moderate heat (about 250 F.). Cook, stirring occasionally, until a small
  amount of the syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water, OR a
  candy thermometer registers 236 F. Remove from heat and let cool 5 minutes.
  Add vanill and nuts andbeat with a wooden spoon until slightly thickened.
  Drop by heaping tablespoonfuls onto waxed paper. Let stand until set. Makes
  about 16.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Prune Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Prunes
      4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Wash prunes, cover with water, and cook slowly until tender. Drain, pit,
  and chop.  Add sugar to prune juice.  Add prunes and lemon juice. Boil to
  soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Cool to room temperature. Beat until
  creamy.  Add nuts.  Pour into well-buttered, shallow pan. Cut in squares.
  Miss E.W., Rayne, LA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Pulled Mints
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Water
           Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Peppermint flavoring
 
  Boil sugar, water, and butter to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F). Add
  flavoring.  Turn onto wet platter.  Cool.  Pull until brittle. Cut in
  1-inch pieces.  Place in dish of powdered sugar. Leave until mints become
  creamy. Margaret Scharfeneker, Buckhannon, W. VA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Quick Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Box confectioner's sugar
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4    To 1/2 cup cocoa, depending
           -on how rich you want it
 
  My mom has been making fudge for years from a recipe she found on the side
  of a box of Domino's Powdered Sugar. The last time I found Domino's sugar,
  they weren't putting this recipe on the side of the box any more, so I'll
  go ahead and post it. Warning: it's fattening, very rich, but you can make
  it in less than a half hour and without all the beating and stirring that
  fudge normally takes.
  
  QUICK FUDGE
  
  Melt butter in bottom of large saucepan. Stir in confectioner's sugar,
  followed by all other ingredients. Keep stirring until mixture comes to a
  full boil. Pour mixture into an 8-inch square buttered pan. Let cool, cut
  into small squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Quick Fudge (Mom's)
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Box confectioner's sugar
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4    To 1/2 cup cocoa, depending
           -on how rich you want it
 
  From: Donna Ransdell, originally from:
  
  My mom has been making fudge for years from a recipe she found on the side
  of a box of Domino's Powdered Sugar. The last time I found Domino's sugar,
  they  weren't putting this recipe on the side of the box any more, so I'll
  go ahead  and post it. Warning: it's fattening, very rich, but you can make
  it in less than a half hour and without all the beating and stirring that
  fudge normally takes.
  
  QUICK FUDGE
  
  Melt butter in bottom of large saucepan. Stir in confectioner's sugar,
  followed by all other ingredients. Keep stirring until mixture comes to a
  full boil. Pour mixture into an 8-inch square buttered pan. Let cool, cut
  into small squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Quick Nut Fudge
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1 lb Confectioners sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Chopped pecans
      6 tb Butter
      4 tb Milk
      1 tb Vanilla
 
  Combine all ingredients except nuts in top of double boiler. Place over
  simmering water and stir until smooth, add nuts and mix. Spread candy
  quickly in buttered 9 x 5 loaf pan.  Cool, cut in squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Quickie Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Butter/margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  Blend together confectioners' sugar and cocoa in a 8x8x2 inch dish. Pour in
  milk.  Place butter on top.  Heat in microwave on full power for 2 minutes,
  or until butter is melted.  Stir well to mix ingredients.
  
  Add vanilla and nuts.  Stir until blended.  Place in freezer for 20
  minutes, or in refrigerator for 1 hour.  Chill.  Cut into 1-inch squares.
  Store in airtight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Raisin Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Molasses
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      2    Squares chocolate
      2 tb Raisins
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt butter; add sugar, milk, molasses, and chocolate.  Heat gently and
  stir until chocolate is melted.  Bring to the boiling point and boil to
  soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire. Cool to room temperature.
  Beat until creamy.  Add raisins, nuts, and flavoring. Continue beating
  until mixture will hold its shape. Pour into well-buttered pan. Cut in
  squares. Mrs. H.J.T., Tulsa, OK.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Raisin Nougat
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  White corn sirup
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 lb Marshmallow cream
      2 tb Cocoa butter
      1 c  Raisins
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Lemon flavoring with yellow
           -coloring
           OR
    1/2 ts Raspberry flavoring with
           -pink coloring
 
  Boil sugar, salt, sirup, and water to hard crack stage (285 - 290 F). Stir
  constantly.  Remove from fire.  Stir marshmallow cream in rapidly. Add
  cocoa butter; mix well.  Add coloring, flavoring, and raisins. Pour into
  well-buttered pan. Spread 1/2 inch thick. Cut in squares. The Household
  Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Raisin Peanut Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Icing sugar
      1 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Peanut butter.
      1 c  Chopped salted peanuts
      1 c  Raisins
 
  Melt butter in a saucepan and heat until bubbly. Add the peanut butter and
  continue heating until peanut butter becomes smooth and more liquidy.  Pour
  into the icing sugar and then add the nuts and raisins.  Mix together until
  thoroughly combined.  Spoon into a greased 8 inch square pan and chill
  until set. Store in refrigerator.
  
  Origin:  Cariboo Observer, November 20, 1985, (local newspaper) Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens  Aug/91
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Raisin Peanut Balls
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
      1 c  Raisins
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Shredded coconut
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  Plump raisins by steaming.  Drain and chop.  Roll coconut into fine pieces.
  Toast to a light brown in moderate oven (370 F). Mix peanut butter, sugar,
  lemon juice, cinnamon, salt, and raisins. Blend thoroughly. Shape into
  small balls.  Roll in toasted coconut. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Raspberry Meringues
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 36
 
      3    Eggs (Room Temp)
    1/4 ts Cream Of Tartar
        ds Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Raspberry Preserves *
      6 dr Red Food Coloring
 
  * Raspberry preserves should be seedless.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Preheat oven 225F.  Cover cookie sheet with aluminum foil.  In small bowl,
  with electric hand mixer, beat egg whites, cream of tartar, and salt until
  soft peaks form.  Gradually add sugar, beating until very stiff peaks form,
  about 10 minutes.  Add preserves and food coloring and beat one minute at
  highest speed of mixer.  Drop by teaspoonfuls, two inches apart, onto foil
  lined cookie sheet. Bake for two hours. Cool completely. Peel off foil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Raspberry Divinity Squares
 Categories: Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Light corn syrup
      3    Egg whites
      1    3 oz pkg. raspberry flavor
           -gelatin
    2/3 c  Chopped, blanched almonds
    1/2 ts Almond extract
 
  MICROWAVE DIRECTIONS:
  
  An electric stand mixes is required for this candy, since a portable hand
  mixer might not be powerful enough to beat the thick mixture.
  
  Line a 12X8" (2 qt) baking dish with foil so that foil extends over sides
  of dish.  Butter foil.  In 2 qt. microwave safe measuring cup, combine
  sugar, corn syrup, and water.  Microwave on high for 17 to 18 minutes, or
  until microwave candy thermometer reaches 260 F. (Hard ball stage) Stirring
  twice during cooking.
  
  Meanwhile, in a large bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form.
  Gradually add gelatin, beating until egg whites are stiff and glossy. Pour
  syrup mixture in steady THIN stream over egg whites, beating at high speed
  until mixture holds it's shape, about 3 - 6 minutes.  Stir in almonds and
  almond extract.
  
  Spread evenly in buttered, foil lined dish.  Let stand at room temperature
  until completely cool and set, about 4 hours or overnight. Cut into 1"
  squares.  (Dip knife into hot water if necessary to minimize sticking)
  Store in airtight container in cool, dry place.
  
  Courtesy of: Joann's Country Kitchen
  
  Source: Pillsbury Family Christmas Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Real Chocolate Drops
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      3 dr Confectioner's glycerine;
           -drops!
 
  Boil to hard ball stage. When tested, pour slowly over beaten whites of 2
  eggs. Beat until it crumbles, put on marble table top, anything except
  wood, and knead as you would bread. Knead until creamy, then flavor. Can
  add to different batches cherries, nuts and peppermint. Make into drops and
  let stand a while. The dip, taking 3/4 lb. dipping chocolate. It should be
  melted in double boiler over warm, not hot, water.
  
  Source: Estella Roberts, Salt Rock Grange, Marion County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Recess Peanut Butter Cups (Reeses)
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Pitzer
   Servings:  6
 
      8 oz Hershey's Milk Chocolate
  1 1/2 c  Peanut Butter, Divided
 
  Melt 8 oz Hersey's milk chocolate bar with 1/2 cup peanut butter. Melt 1
  cup peanut butter in measuring cup set in a pan of boiling water. Cut
  cupcake papers down to about the size for the Reese's cups and place in
  cupcake tin.  Put about 1 T. of melted choc mixture, let set for 20 min
  then place 1 T peanut butter on choc. let set for 10 minutes then place 1
  more T of choc on top and let set.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Recess Peanut Butter Cups (Reeses) - Gloria Pitzer
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
      8 oz Hershey's Chocolate
    1/2 c  Peanut Butter
      1 c  Peanut Butter
 
  Melt 1 cup peanut butter in measuring cup set in a pan of boiling water.
  Cut cupcake papers down to about the size for the Reese's cups and place in
  cupcake tin.  Put about 1 T. of melted choc mixture, let set for 20 min
  then place 1 T peanut butter on choc. let set for 10 minutes then place 1
  more T of choc on top and let set.
  
  From:  Donahue Show with Gloria Pitzer Posted by: Norma Conklin (VXBD11A) -
  Prodigy Reposted by: Debbie Carlson - Cooking Echo
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Recess Peanut Butter Cups
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
      6 oz Pkg semi sweet chocolate
           -chips
      4    Nestles milk chocolate bars
  1 1/4 c  Peanut butter
 
  Makes: 24 tiny/12 large
  
  Put choc chips, choc bars, and 1/4 c peanut butter in top of double boiler
  over HOT, not boiling water, stirring till smooth.  Use small muffin tin
  liners, or cut regular cupcake liners down to a 1" depth. Spoon HALF of the
  chocolate mixture equally into the liners.  Melt the rest of the peanut
  butter over hot water, and spoon this equally over the chocolate layer. Top
  with remaining chocolate. Refrigerate to allow cups to set up before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Recess' Peanut Butter Cups
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
      8 oz Hershey's Milk Chocolate
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Peanut Butter
      1 c  Peanut Butter (Need 2 Cups)
     24    Cupcake Liners
 
  In top of double boiler over simmering water, combine 8 ounce bar Hershey's
  Milk Chocolate, 4T butter and 1 cup peanut butter. Stir until melted. Put 1
  cup of peanut butter into heat-proof cup and set in pan of hot water till
  melted and of pouring consistency. Cut cupcake liners with scissors to 1"
  high. Place 1 T chocolate mixture in bottom of each liner and then 1 T of
  the melted peanut butter and finally 1 T of the melted chocolate mixture.
  Let stand until set. Refrigerate until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Reese's Peanut Butter Cups
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      8 oz Chocolate
     12 oz Peanut butter
 
  Melt 1/2 the peanut butter and half the chocolate together. Spread the
  melted mixture in 24 small paper or foil candy cups. Let set. Melt peanut
  butter and divide equally into the 24 cups. Melt the chocolate and divide
  equally into 24 cups and use as a lid to seal the peanut butter in.
  
  Origin: George Young (my birth father) Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Reeses Bars
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
           Sharon Stevens
      1 c  Melted butter
  2 3/4 c  Icing sugar
      1 c  Peanut butter
  2 1/2 c  Graham wafer crumbs
     12 oz Chocolate chips
 
  Mix together first four and press into an ungreased 9 x 13 pan.
  
  Melt the chocolate chips and pour over the peanut butter mixture. Let cool
  slightly and then cut into bars before the chocolate hardens completely.
  
  Shared by:  Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Reeses Peanut Butter Bars
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           -Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
      1 pk Graham crackers
           -crushed
      2 c  Powdered sugar
    3/4 c  Margarine
      1 c  Peanut butter
      1 c  Chocolate Chips
    2/3 c  Peanut butter
 
  Melt margarine, peanut butter.  Add crushed crackers and sugar. Press into
  9x13 pan.
  
  Melt 1 cup chocolate chips with 2/3 cup peanut butter.  Spread over the
  top.  Cool and munch
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rice Brittle
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Puffed rice
 
  Combine water, sugar, cream of tartar, vinegar, and butter.  Boil to hard
  crack stage (285 - 290 F).  Remove from fire.  Add flavoring and rice. Stir
  until all the grains are coated.  Pour into well-buttered pan. Spread in a
  thin sheet.  Let cool. Break in pieces. Mrs. G.G. Cornell, Hazel Green, AL.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rice Krispie Eggs
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      1 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      2 c  Rice Krispies
      2 tb Oil
    1/4 ts Vanilla
 
  Mix together and mold into eggs.  Place on cookie sheet and freeze about 2
  hours. Dip in chocolate coating to which a small amount of oil or butter
  may be added. Cool on waxed paper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rice Krispie Squares
 Categories: Kids, Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      4 tb Butter
      4 c  Marshmallows or 10 oz
      5 c  Rice krispie cereal
 
  Melt butter in saucepan over low heat. Add marshmallows and stir till
  melted. Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly . Remove from heat, add Rice
  Krispies and stir till all are coated. Using buttered spatula, press evenly
  into buttered 13x9x2" pan. Cool. Cut into 2" squares.
  
  VARIATIONS: add 1 cup raisins     add 1 cup peanuts add 1/4 cup peanut
  butter to marshmallows melt 2 squares chocolate with marshmallows for
  Christmas: add green food colouring (if desired), shape into "trees" or
  press into buttered ring or small Bundt mold. Decorate with red cinnamon
  candies (for tree) or spearmint leaves and jelly berries for ring mold
  (resembles a wreath) posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rich Orange-Chocolate Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Entertain, Gift, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      6 oz Pkg semisweet chocolate
           -chips
      2 tb Grated orange peel
      1 ts Orange extract
           COATINGS
           Ground natural pistachio
           -nuts
           Unsweetened cocoa powder
           Confectioners' sugar
           Chocolate jimmies
 
  Stir the cream and chocolate chips in a small heavy saucepan over medium
  heat until bubbling and chocolate is almost melted.  Remove from heat. Stir
  until the chocolate is completely melted and the mixture is smooth. Stir in
  the grated orange peel and orange extract.  Pour the mixture into a shallow
  baking pan and refrigerate until firm enough to shape, about 40 minutes.
  Meanwhile, spread 2 to 3 tablespoons of each coating ingredient in
  individual shallow dishes.  Divide the cold chocolate mixture into 24 equal
  portions.  Roll each portion into a ball. Roll the balls in the coatings, 6
  per coating, to cover completely. Place the balls as they are coated in
  1-inch paper or foil bonbon cups. Store in an airtight container in the
  refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
  
  Makes 2 dozen truffles.
  
  [REDBOOK; Nov 1990]
  
  Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rock Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      1    Glass jar or drinking glass
      1    Piece of cotton string
      1    Pencil or stick
      1    Paper clip
      1    Food coloring (optional)
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Sugar
           Additional sugar
 
  Tie a short piece of cotton string to the middle of the pencil or stick.
  Attach a paper clip to the end of the string for a weight.  Moisten the
  string very lightly, and roll in a bit of sugar (this will "attract" the
  sugar crystals from the syrup to the string).  Place the pencil or stick
  over the top of the glass or jar with the string hanging down inside.
  
  Heat the water to boiling, and dissolve the 2 cups of sugar into it.  For
  the biggest crystals FAST, heat the sugar-water solution a SECOND time, and
  dissolve as much additional sugar as you can into it.  Add a few drops of
  food coloring to the solution if desired.
  
  Pour the solution into the prepared glass or jar and leave undisturbed for
  a couple of days.  Depending on how much sugar you were able to dissolve
  into the water, you should start to see crystals growing in a few hours to
  a few days.
  
  Source: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rock Candy
 Categories: Candies, Amish
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 ts Flavoring oil
           Food coloring
 
  Stir sugar, water and cream of tartar until disolved.  Cook on high until
  mixture boils to hard crack (300 degrees).  Add 1/2 tsp flavoring oil and
  food coloring.  Pour mixture into powdered sugar; when cool enough to
  handle, cut into pieces. Contributor writes, "I cover a cookie sheet with
  sifted powdered sugar and with the back of a spoon, make troughs and pour
  hot liquid into these.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rocky Road
 Categories: Candies, Cookies
   Servings:  8
 
     16 oz Milk chocolate bars
      3 c  Tiny marshmallows
    3/4 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Melt chocolate bars then stir in marshmallows and nuts.  Use 8X8X2-inch
  greased pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rocky Road Carmel Corn Bars
 Categories: Candies, Microwave
   Servings:  6
 
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) margarine
 10 1/2 oz Package minature
           -marshmallows 1/2 cup
           -semiswet chocolate chips
      5 c  Caramel corn (Can use Joel
           -Murphy's recipe for this) 1
           -cup peanuts
 
  From: Micky Kolar winner of Kraft's "Search for America"s Best Marshmallow
  Recipe"  Grand Prize $5,000
  
  Microwave margarine in a microwave safe bowl on high power 45 seconds, or
  until melted.  Add 5 cups marshmallows and chocolate chips.  Toss to coat
  with margarine. Microwave 1 1/2 minutes or until smooth when stirred,
  stirring after 45 seconds.
  
  Combine caramel corn and peanuts in a large bowl.  Pour melted mixture over
  caramel corn and peanuts and toss to coat.  Stir in remaining marshmallows.
  Press into a greased 13 by 9 inch baking pan.  Cool and cut into squares.
  
  Conventional cooking directions:  Melt margarine in a saucepan over low
  heat. Add 5 cups marshmallows and chocolate chips; stir until melted and
  well blended. Continue as directed above.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rocky Road Candy
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  4
 
      6 oz Chocolate chips
      1 oz Chocolate, unsweet.
      1 tb Butter
      2    Eggs
  1 1/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Peanuts, salted cocktail
      2 c  Marshmallows, mini
 
  Melt chocolate pieces, chocolate and butter in a large saucepan over low
  heat, stirring until smooth.  Remove from heat.
  
  Beat eggs until foamy.  Mix in sugar, salt and vanilla.  Blend in chocolate
  mixture.  Stir in peanuts and marshmallows.  Drop by teaspoonfuls onto
  waxed paper. Chill 2 hours or until firm. Store in refrigerator; remove
  just before serving. Makes about 4 dozen.
  
  Posted by: Debbie Carlson, cooking echo, August 5, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rosalynn Carter's Peanut Brittle
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 12
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Corn syrup,clear
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Butter
      4 c  Peanuts,raw
      1 ts Baking soda
 
  1. Blend sugar, corn syrup, water, and butter. Cook to 230'F. on a candy
  thermometer. Add peanuts and cook to 280'F. Stir occasionally and continue
  cooking to 305'F. Remove from heat.
  2. Add baking soda and stir quickly until mixture foams. Quickly pour into
  2 buttered 15x10x1" pans and spread thinly over entire surface of pans.
  Cool until hard and break into pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rum Flavored Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 qt Popped popcorn
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
  2 1/2 tb Light corn syrup
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Rum flavor
    1/3 ts Vinegar
 
  Preheat oven to 250. Place popcorn in large 4 inch deep buttered baking
  pan.  Keep warm in the oven.  In a large saucepan, stir sugar, water and
  corn srup together until sugar is dissolved.  Boil without stirring until
  mixture reached 250 on a candy thermometer.  Remove from heat and quickly
  stir in salt, rum flavor and vinegar.  Remove popcorn from oven. Pour syrup
  mixture over popcorn and mix thoroughly.  Shape into
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rum Pecans
 Categories: Alcohol, Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Pecan halves
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Dark rum
      2 ts Instant coffee
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 ds Salt
 
  Combine all ingredients in a small saucepan and cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, about 15 minutes, until sugar is melted and nuts are
  well coated. Pour out onto oiled wax paper and separate halves of pecans as
  they cool.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's Green Bay Press
  Gazette (newspaper), December 13, 1978
  
  From Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Rum Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 30
 
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
  1 1/2 ts Rum extract
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
 
  Melt chips with whipping cream in heavy, medium saucepan over low heat,
  stirring occasionally.  Whisk in rum extract and vanilla until blended.
  Pour into pie pan.  Refrigerate until mixture is fudgy, but soft, about 75
  minutes.  Shape about 1 T into 1 1/4 inch ball. To shape, roll mixture in
  your palms. Place balls on waxed paper. Sift powdered sugar and cocoa into
  a shallow bowl.  Roll balls in sugar-cocoa mixture; place in petit four or
  candy cases.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Russian Cheese Babka
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 pk (8oz) cream cheese soft
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Chopped red candied cherries
      1 c  Lg. curd cream style cottage
    1/4 c  Golden raisins
           Cheese
      2 tb Diced candied pineapple
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Toasted almonds (optional)
      1 tb Fine shredded orange peel
      1 tb " " lemon peel
 
  Combine first 7 ingredients, beat until smooth.  Mix in remaining
  ingredients.   With a moistened piece of cheescloth line a clean flower pot
  whole.  Put in mix and put on a rack to drain in refrigerator overnight or
  longer.  Unmold and garnish with candied cherries.
  
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Salt Water Taffy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Corn-starch
    1/2 c  Water
    2/3 c  Honey
           Few grains salt
 
  Mix dry ingredients.  Add water and honey.  Cook to hard ball stage (265 -
  270 F).  Pour into well-buttered pan.  Cool.  Pull until porous. Cut in
  1-inch pieces. Mrs. S.P. Ottow, Davenport, N.D.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Salt Water Taffy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Light corn syrup
  1 1/2 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Glycerin
      2 tb Butter
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, syrup, water, salt and glycerin in a 3-qt. heavy saucepan.
  Place on low heat and stir until sugar dissolves.  Then cook without
  stirring to the hard ball stage (260).
  
  Remove from heat and add butter.  When butter is melted, pour into a
  buttered shallow pan (about 13 x 9)
  
  When cool enough to handle, gather into a ball and pull until rather firm.
  Add vanilla while pulling.  Stretch out into a long rope and cut in 1 or 2"
  pieces.  Wrap each piece in waxed paper when hard; twist paper at both
  ends.  This will keep the candy from becoming sticky. Makes about 1-1/4
  lbs.
  
  Note:  You can tint the taffy while puling it.  Different flavors may be
  added, also in the pulling, instead of vanilla.  Pink taffy usually is
  flavored with wintergreen, white with vanilla, green with spearmint.
  
  From: Choice Candy From Your Own Kitchen (Farm Journal) Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Salt Water Taffy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornflour
    2/3 c  White corn syrup
    1/2 oz Butter
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
           Food coloring
           Flavoring extracts, vanilla
           -almond, orange, peppermint
           -etc.
 
  This famous candy is sold all along the Boardwalk at Atlantic City and, it
  is claimed, is made with sea water.
  
  Mix sugar and cornflour in a saucepan.  Stir in corn syrup, butter, water
  and salt.  Cook over a moderate heat until mixture reaches 254 degrees F or
  until a few sdrops tested in cold water form a ball which holds its shape.
  Remove from heat, add a few drops of food coloring and flavoring extract,
  and pour on to a buttered platter. Cool until it can be handled
  comfortably. Butter your hands and pull the taffy until it is light in
  colour and firm enough to hold a shape. Stretch into a roll about 1 inch in
  diameter and snip off bits with kitchen shears.  Wrap each piece in wax
  paper.
  
  From:  THE AMERICAN HERITAGE COOKBOOK by the Editors of American Heritage,
  1964. Shared by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 4/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Salt Water Taffy
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Corn syrup; light
    3/4 c  Water; hot
      1 ea Butter; small lump
 
  Combine sugar, starch, butter and salt. Add syrup and water. Stir over fire
  until sugar is dissolved. Boil to hard ball stage. Pout on greased plates
  and flavor each on differently. When cool enough to handle, pull until
  stiff and cut into pieces.
  
  Source: Virginia Wilson, Good Hope Grange, Fayette County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Saltwater Taffy (Microwave)
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 tb Butter
      2 ts Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           Food coloring as desired
 
  Lightly butter a jelly-roll pan.  In a 3-quart microwave-safe casserole
  with high sides, mix sugar, salt, syrup, and 1 cup hot water.  Cook on HIGH
  until boiling, about 8 minutes.  Stir.  Cook until mixture reaches 260F on
  a candy thermometer, about 15 to 20 minutes.  When the bubbling stops, stir
  in 2 tablespoons butter, the vanilla, and food color.  Pour into prepared
  pan.  Cool about 5 minutes.  Lightly butter hands; gather one sixth of
  taffy into a ball.  Pull until taffy holds its shape in a 1/2-inch thick
  strand.  With buttered shears, cut into 1-inch lengths. Wrap each piece in
  plastic wrap.  Note: Other flavorings can be used. Add according to taste.
  Makes 1 1/2 pounds. McCALL'S; January 1990
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Scotch Treats
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 16
 
      6 oz Pack butterscotch chips
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
      3 c  Rice Krispies
 
  Melt chips very carefully over hot water. (NOT boiling) Add peanut butter
  and blend.  Pour over Rice Krispies and mix gently to coat rice.
  
  Press into 9" by 9" buttered pan.  Chill and cut into squares. Makes about
  16 squares. Better double the recipe and use a 9" by 13" pan. One recipe
  lasts about 3 minutes in a small
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Scotchy Pecan Critters
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  5
 
      1 c  Butterscotch chips
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk,
           -divided
      2 ts White vinegar
      4 c  Pecan halves
      1 pk Milk chocolate chips
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  In heave saucepan, over low heat, melt butterscotch chips with 1/3 cup
  sweetened condensed milk.  Remove from heat.  Stir in vinegar.  Drop by
  small spoonfuls onto wax paper lined baking sheets. Arrange 3 pecans on
  each butterscotch drop. In large heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt
  chocolate chipe with remaining sweetened condensed milk, and vanilla.
  Remove from heat. Hold chocolate mixture over hot water. Drop chocolate by
  heaping spoonfuls over pecan clusters. Chill 2 hours, or until firm. Store
  lossely covered in refrigerator. Makes about 5 dozen candies.
  
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1991. Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sea Foam
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Egg whites
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Combine sugar, water, salt, and cream of tartar.  Cover and boil 5 minutes.
  Uncover.  Wipe sides of saucepan with a damp cloth. Boil without stirring
  to firm ball stage (245 - 248 F).  Pour slowly, beating constantly, over
  stiffly beaten egg whites.  Add flavoring. Continue beating until candy
  holds its shape when dropped from spoon. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto waxed
  paper. Sprinkle with rose-colored coconut. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sea Foam
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings: 24
 
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar; light
  1 1/2 c  Sugar; white
      1 c  Water; cold
    1/2 c  Nuts; chopped
      1 tb Vinegar
      2 ea Egg whites
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Boil sugar, water and vinegar to soft ball stage. Remove from fire. Beat
  egg whites and salt until stiff. When syrup has stopped bubbling, pour
  gradually into egg whites and beat well. When it begins to stiffen, add
  vanilla and nuts. Drop by teaspoonful on wax paper. Makes 2 dozen.
  
  Source: Ruth Spencer, Racine Grange, Melga County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: See's Fudge Candy (The "Original" Recipe!)
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 25
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 pk Chocolate chips (12 oz ea)
    1/2 lb Margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 cn Evaporated milk
      7 oz Marshmallow cream
      2 c  Nuts
 
  Mix 4 1/2 cups sugar with one (1) can evaporated milk.  Boil 7 to 8
  minutes, stirring often. (rolling boil)
  
  Mix together in a large bowl; 3 packages chocolate chips, 7 oz. jar
  marshmallow cream, 1/2 lb. melted margarine.
  
  Cream margarine and marshmallow together and add chocolate chips.
  
  Pour hot mixture over chocolate mixture.
  
  After chocolate has melted, add 2 cups of nuts and 1 tsp. of vanilla, blend
  well, pour into buttered pans and chill in refrigerator.  Cut into squares
  before firm.
  
  This recipe makes about 5 lbs of fudge.  No one has attempted a calorie
  count, but it's estimated that each piece contains about 47 gazillion
  calories.  Dieters, beware!
  
  HISTORICAL NOTE:  Given to Amy DeVore by Emma Julian c. 1930, this is
  "supposedly" the original recipe for See's Fudge, produced by the See's
  Candy Company, Los Angeles.  Emma allegedly worked for See's and later
  owned her own candy store.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: See's Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  5
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
     12 oz Can evaporated milk
      3 lg Pkgs Nestle semi-sweet
           -chocolate chips
      1 c  Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Nuts (optional)
 
  Boil sugar and milk for 7-10 minutes.  In a BIG bowl, combine chocolate
  chips, butter, vanilla, and nuts.  Pour boiled milk and sugar over them and
  stir.  Spread out over a cookie sheet (more like 3 or 4!) and let it set.
  Makes 5 lbs.
  
  For peanut butter fudge, use peanut butter chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sesame Halvah
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      6 c  Sesame Seeds
  1 1/2 c  Honey
      1 ts Ginger
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Allspice
 
  Toast 6 cups of sesame seeds in a skillet or oven.  Blend the seeds in a
  blender one cup at a time.  Add honey, ginger, cinnamon and allspice and
  mix in well.  Pat into a 13" X 9" pan and refrigerate. Cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sesame Peanut Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  White vinegar
      4 ts Water
    1/2 c  Sesame seeds, toasted*
  1 1/2 c  Roasted unsalted skinless
           -peanuts
 
  *To toast sesame seeds, sprinkle evenly into baking pan.  Bake in preheated
  350 F oven until golden (about 5 min.) cool.
  
  1. Combine sugar, vinegar and water in medium saucepan.  Cook over low
  heat, stirring just until sugar dissolves.  Cook without stirring until
  mixture boils.  Boil mixture without stirring until it is golden and
  reaches 295-300 degrees F (146-149 degrees C) or hard- crack stage on a
  candy thermometer, about 10 minutes.
  
  2. While sugar mixture is boilding, grease an 11x7 baking pan. Sprinkle
  half of the sesame seeds and all of the peanuts evenly into pan.
  
  3. Pour sugar mixture over nut.  Smooth surface with the back of a greased
  wooden spoon.  Sprinkle with remaining sesame seeds.  Cool slightly. While
  candy is still warm, cut into 2x1" pieces.
  
  From: Chinese Cooking Class Cookbook, by the editors of Consumer Guide
  Posted by: Sheila Exner, October 1991
  
  Will watch for some other oriental cookbooks to see if I can find what you
  really want.
  
  Sheila
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Shoofly Snack
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  2 1/2 qt Popped popcorn
      1    Whiskey-Sour Popcorn Balls
      2 qt Popped popcron
 
  Approximately 1/2 cup dry whiskey sour mix (2 packets of individual drink
  mix 1/2 cup sugar 1/4 tsp salt 1/4 cup light corn syrup 1/2 cup water 1/2
  tsp vinegar
  
  Preheat oven to 250. Place popcorn in a large 4 inch deep buttered baking
  pan.  Keep warm in over. Combine other ingredients in a large saucepan.
  Cook until mixture reaches 250 on a candy thermometer. Remove popcorn from
  oven. Pour syrup mixture over popcorn.  Mix well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Smith College Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Granulated sugar, 1 cup
           -brown sugar--firmly packed,
           -1/4 cup molasses,
    1/2 c  Light cream, 2 squares (2
           -oz) unsweetened chocolate,
    1/4 c  Butter
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine the 2 sugars, molasses, cream and coarsely chopped chocolate in  a
  saucepan. Cook over a moderate heat, stirring until sugar and  chocolate
  have melted. Continue cooking, WITHOUT STIRRING, until mixture reaches 238
  degrees or until a few drops tested in cold water    form a soft ball.
  Remove from heat, stir in butter and vanilla, cool slightly, then beat
  until fudge begins to harden. Pour onto a buttered platter and cut into
  squares before the fudge is completely hard. Makes about 1 1/4 lbs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Southwest Cactus Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Syrup
 
  Select prickly pear cactus (or small barrel cactus if you own one since it
  is illegal to remove it from the desert,) and remove spines and outside
  layer with large knife.  Cut pulp across in slices 1 inch thick.  Soak
  overnight in cold water; cut in 1 inch cubes and cook in boiling water
  until tender. Drain. Cook slowly in the following syrup until nearly all
  the syrup is absorbed. Do not scorch.
  
  Heat all ingredients until sugar is dissolved.  Add cactus.  Remove cactus
  from syrup, drain and roll in granulated or powdered sugar.  For colored
  cactus candy, any vegetable coloring may be added to syrup.
  
  From: Recipes and Remembrances Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Speedy Chocolate Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    3/4 c  Smooth or crunchy peanut
           -butter
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate chips (1
           -cup)
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
    1/4 c  Heavy cream or milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  In a 2-quart glass bowl, combine peanut butter, chocolate chips,
  marshmallows, cream and vanilla. Place in a microwave oven and heat on HIgh
  1 1/2 to 2 minutes, or until marshmallows are melted and mixture is smooth
  when stirred. Turn into a foil-lined 8-inch square baking pan. Let cool 1/2
  hour, then refrigerate until firm. Cut into 1-inch squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Spirited Chocolates
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Entertain, Gift
   Servings:  6
 
           *Ingredients:*
      2 tb Butter or margarine,
           -softened
      2 tb Plus 1 tsp Kirsch or
           -Chambord
  2 1/2    To 3 cups powdered sugar,
           -sifted
      2 pk Semisweet chocolate morsels
           -(12-oz pkgs)
 
  Combine butter and liqueur; blend well. Stir in enough powdered sugar to
  make mixture the consistency of craft dough, kneading as necessary. Shape
  mixture into 4 dozen balls. Chill.
  
  Place chocolate in top of a double boiler; bring water to a boil. Reduce
  heat to low; cook until chocolate melts. Let chocolate stand over hot water
  as you mold chocolates.
  
  Spoon about 1/2 teaspoon melted chocolate into each plastic mold intended
  for chocolate-covered cherries. spread chocolate to cover sides of mold
  using the back of a smll spoon. Freeze about 10 minutes or until firm.
  Place one fondant ball in each mold; spoon in additional chocolate to fill
  molds. Chill until firm.
  
  Invert plastic molds, and gently tap to release candy. Store in the
  refrigerator.
  
  Yields 4 dozen.
  
  NOTE: Candy mixture may also be dropped in melted chocolate if
  chocolate-covered cherry molds are unavailable.
  
  Source: "Southern Living: 1986 Annual Recipes" Oxmoor House, 1986.
  
  Shared by: June Hoffman, 7/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Stained Glass Candies
 Categories: Candies, Entertain
   Servings:  1
 
      4 oz Chocolate, Semisweet
      1    Egg, Beaten
    1/2 c  Walnuts
      1 c  Sugar, Icing
      3 c  Mini-Marshmallows
      2 ts Butter
 
  Melt chocolate, add sugar and egg, pour over nuts and marshmallows.  Form
  into rolls, wrap in wax paper and refrigerate.  When cool, slice into round
  candies.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Stained Glass Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
  3 3/4 c  White sugar
  1 1/2 c  Lily white syrup (or Karo,
           -must be colorless)
      1 c  Water
           Food coloring
           Oil based flavorings such as
           - Wiltons
           Tin foil
           Icing sugar, approximately
           - 10 cups, can be reused
           - over and over
           Sharp pair of scisors
           Candy thermometer
           Lots of volunteers to help
 
  Mix the white sugar, white syrup, and water in a medium sized pot. Add the
  food coloring you want (green for spearmint, orange for orange) Bring to a
  boil, and boil until candy thermometer reaches 300 F degrees. (Can take up
  to 20 minutes)   Stir to mix all the ingredients, but once it starts to
  boil, do not touch.  Pot must be big enough to allow for double, as it
  rises as it boils
  
  While the candy mixture is boiling, shape a large piece of tin foil by
  folding up the sides and ends.  (I use the large foil about 3 feet long) to
  create a large cookie sheet type shape.  Put the icing sugar on the foil to
  completely cover it, and bank up the sides with icing sugar.
  
  When the candy mixture has reached 300F, remove from heat.  Let sit about
  10 seconds and stir to cool slightly (heavy emphasis on SLIGHTLY) Then add
  about 1 to 1-1/2 tsp of the oil based flavorings depending on how strong
  you want the flavor.  Stir until mixed (may boil a bit and DON'T stand over
  top of pot as flavor with escape in the air and up your nose!! 8-} ) Once
  flavoring is combined, pour mixture onto the icing sugar and use rubber
  spatula to scrape all mixture out of pot.  Put pot, spatula and candy
  thermometer into sinkful of hot soapy water.  If you allow it to harden you
  won't be saying nice things about me at all!! 8-} As candy is cooling, keep
  checking by trying to pull up the edges.  Once it gets to the consistency
  that you can lift it a little, start cutting it FAST! I cut off a chunk and
  then cut it up into bite-sized pieces. The outside will cool first so you
  have to watch it.  If it hardens to quickly you will end up with a good
  size lollipop that you won't be able to cut. It will shatter like glass.
  Continue working your way around until all is cut. Then I take all the
  candy and put it in a strainer that is sitting over a bowl. Shake some of
  the excess icing sugar off candy and allow to cool thoroughly. Pack in
  airtight containers. I find Zip-Loc Freezer bags pretty good. This recipe
  makes about 2 lbs candy. Once I have done all the flavors that I want, then
  I set up all the bags and put about 10 of each flavor into a smaller
  zip-loc and seal.  They make great Christmas gifts for family and all the
  various people you give to....mailman, garbage man, paperboy, school
  teachers, your kids friends..etc.  I figure if the kids have to help me
  cut, they get some to give to their friends..  Besides.. makes a good bribe
  to get them to help!!
  
  Origin:  ME!  Sharon Stevens Shared by: ME! Sharon Stevens
  
  THE HOMESTEAD, NASHVILLE TN HST V32 B (615)385-9421
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sticky Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 tb Margarine
    1/2 c  Pitted And Chopped Dates
    3/4 c  Granola
      3 tb Instant Nonfat Dry Milk
    1/4 c  Walnuts, Finely Chopped
 
  Heat the margarine in a saucepan until melted.  Add the dates and continue
  to heat until softened.  Remove from the heat and stir in the granola and
  dry milk.  Cool and roll into balls then roll the balls in the nuts. Store
  in the refrigerator until serving time. Serve at room temperature.
  
  Serve this the next time someone cries "I'm Starved".
  
  From Super Snacks For Kids By Penny Warner Copyright 1985
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Strawberry Leather
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Fresh strawberry puree
      1 c  Applesauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
  Combine pureed berries and applesauce with lemon juice and sugar.  Line a
  10x15 in jelly roll pan with plastic wrap.  Pour fruit into pan and spread
  evenly.  Bake about 5 hours at 200F or until leather pulls away from wrap.
  
  Flip leather onto counter, peel away plastic and remove any mixture that
  has not "set."  Cut into slices and wrap each in plastic.
  
  Source:  Sun Newspaper clipping June 28/93 from The Garden (U-pick farm)
  booklet, shared but not tested by Elizabeth Rodier, Calgary, Alberta
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Strawberry Divinity Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      1 c  Preserved strawberries
      2    Egg whites
 
  Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar to firm ball stage (248 F). Add
  strawberries which have been drained as dry as possible. Let come to a boil
  again.  Pour slowly, beating constantly, over stiffly beaten egg whites.
  Beat until thick and fluffy. Pour into well-buttered pans. When firm cut in
  squares. Any thick preserves or candied fruit may be substituted for
  strawberries. Phoebe Journey, Stratton, NE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Stuffed Fruits
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
           Text Only
 
  Pit dates or prunes which have been cooked in water to cover until they are
  tender.  Fill with fondant which has been made into a ball and then into an
  oblong.  Roll in powdered sugar. Whole figs may be stuffed with fondant and
  cut in slices. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sugared Popcorn
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      2 qt Popcorn
      2 tb Butter
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Put butter in saucepan, when malterd add sugar and water. Bring to boiling
  point, let boil 16 minutes. Pour over corn and stir until every kernal is
  well coated with sugar. This can be made in balls, wrapped in waxed paper.
  
  Source: Mrs. Eve Schott, Olive Grange, Noble County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Super Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 34
 
      1 pk Semi sweet chocolate chips
           -(350gr)
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
  1 1/4 c  Icing sugar
      1 pn Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt chocolate chips with condensed milk;
  stir in remaining ingredients.  Spread evenly in waxed paper lined 8 inch
  square pan.  Chill 2-3 hours or until firm. Turn fudge onto cutting board,
  peel of paper, cut into squares. Store loosely coved at room temperature.
  Makes about 3/4 of a pound.  May be wrapped and frozen for up to six weeks.
  Thaw at room temperature before serving.
  
  Origin:  Canadian Living magazine, Eagle Brand milk ad, Dec/88. Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sybil Carter's Peanut Butter Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 25
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Milk
      2 tb Corn syrup
      1 ts Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
 
  Mix together sugar, milk, syrup, and vinegar. Cook to soft ball stage (a
  little syrup dropped into cold water forms a soft ball that flattens when
  removed from water). Remove from heat and cool to lukewarm. Add peanut
  butter and beat until creamy. Dump into 10" buttered pan, put out in pan,
  and cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Sybil Carter's Potato-Peanut Butter Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 48
 
      2 lb Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 c  Irish potatoes, mashed*
      1 cn Peanut butter crunchy
 
  * - boiled and drained
  
  Mix sifted sugar into mashed potatoes, a little at a time, by hand; do not
  use electric mixer. Sprinkle waxed paper with additional confectioners'
  sugar; take ball of sugar-potato mixture, about the size of a baseball,
  roll out as for pastry, and spread with crunchy peanut butter. Roll over
  and over like jelly roll; makes enough for two rolls, each about a foot
  long. Wrap in Saran or foil and chill well. Slice into 1/2" thick rounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Teenage Rocky Roads Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
      2 lb Almond Bark, White
      3 c  Froot Loops Cereal
      3 c  Cheerios Cereal
      2 c  Miniature Marshmallows
 
  Melt almond bark in a double boiler.  Mix cereals in a large bowl, and pour
  the melted almond bark over them.  Mix thoroughly, add colored
  marshmallows, mix again and then drop by tablespoonfuls onto was paper.
  Cool until firm. Makes about 3 dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Thin Toffee Crunch
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Heavy whipping cream
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
 
  Chocolate glaze (recipe follows)
  
  Line 2 cooky sheets with foil; grease foil.  In a heavy 2 qt. saucepan,
  stir together sugar, corn syrup, and cream until well blended.
  
  Stirring constantly, cook over medium-low heat until mixture boils.
  
  Add butter or margarine.  Continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until
  temp. reaches 285 degrees F. on a candy thermometer or until small amount
  dropped into very cold water seperates into threads which are hard, but not
  brittle...about 30 min..  Pour onto greased foil-lined cooky sheets; spread
  with greased spatula to cover entire surface.
  
  Cool.  Spread with chocolate glaze.  chill 1 hour.  Break into pieces.
  Store in a single layer in a tightly covered container in a cool place.
  Makes about 1 3/4 lbs.
  
  Chocolate glaze-  In a small saucepan, melt 2 squares (2 oz) semi sweet
  chocolate, 2 squares (2 oz) UN sweetened chocolate, 1/4 cup butter or
  margarine, and 1 T. light corn syrup over low heat.  Stir until smooth.
  Remove from heat;  pour over toffee, spreading evenly.
  
  NOTE:  I like to sprinkle chopped walnuts or almonds over toffee on top of
  the chocolate glaze....more like See's Victoria Toffee that way!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Tiger Butter
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
   Servings:  6
 
           *Ingredients:*
      1 lb White chocolate
      1    Jar chunky peanut butter
           -(12-oz)
      1 lb Semisweet chocolate, melted
 
  Combine white chocolate and peanut buter in top of a double boiler; bring
  water to a boil. Reduce heat to low, and cook until chocolate and peanut
  butter melt, stirring constantly. Spread mixture onto a waxed paper-lined
  15x10x1-inch jellyroll pan. Pour semi-sweet chocolate over peanut butter
  mixture, and swirl through with a knife. Chill until firm.
  
  Cut into 1-1/2x1-inch pieces. Store in refrigerator.
  
  Yields about 6 dozen pieces.
  
  Source: "Southern Living: 1986 Annual Recipes" Oxmoor House, 1986.
  
  Shared by: June Hoffman, 7/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 12
 
  1 1/2 c  Margarine
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Eng walnuts;or almonds/chopd

MMMMM----------------------------HAVE READY---------------------------------
      1 ts Soda

MMMMM------------------------ADD AFTER FINISHED-----------------------------
    1/2 lb Dipping chocolate
    3/4 c  Pecans (for top)
 
  *Have soda ready at the stove to add at once. **Stirring constantly between
  236 d. & 290 d. prevents butter from separating. No good if this happens.
  Melt butters slowly; add sugar, water and salt.  Cook at low heat, stirring
  constantly until it reaches 212 degrees. STOP STIRRING until candy reaches
  236 degrees. Add the walnuts and stir constantly until candy reaches 290
  degrees. Remove from heat and add soda, stirring well. Pour onto buttered
  cookie sheet. Immediately cut into squares. Will run back together, but can
  be cracked where cut. Add dipping chocolate wafers on top. They will melt &
  you can spread them out. Sprinkle nuts on top (opt.) Dolores McCann, OH
  
   Dolores McCann, Prodigy Food & Wine Board
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Toffee
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Pecans, chopped -OR-
      1 c  Almonds, chopped
    3/4 c  Brown Sugar, Packed
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter
    1/2 c  Chocolate chips
 
  Butter square pan, 9x9x2 inches. Spread chopped nuts in pan. Heat sugar and
  butter to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil over medium heat, stirring
  constantly, 7 minutes (watch it real close the last minute or two).
  Immediately spread mixture evenly over nuts in pan.
  
  Sprinkle chocolate pieces over hot mixture; place a baking sheet over pan
  so contained heat will melt chocolate.Spread melted chocolate over candy.
  While hot, cut into 1 1/2 inch squares. chill until firm.
  
  Debbie Tillman's notes: Now for the changes we use. When we are going to be
  giving this as a gift, we melt another 1/2 c of chocolate in the microwave.
  Use an 7x7x2 pan (or smaller than the 9x9x2). Spread the melted chocolate
  on top of the buttered pan that is covered with the nuts.  After the
  chocolate is spread on top, sprinkle more nuts on top while chocolate is
  still warm. Then cut into small sizes. After the candy is set, remove from
  pan; wrap individually with dessert foil. I get mine at the bakery supply,
  or a craft shop.
  
  Source: Betty Crocker Cookbook; Debbie Tillman, August 7, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Tropical Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  2
 
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Molasses
    1/3 c  Hot water
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Salt
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
      2 c  Finely chopped Brazil nuts
      1 cn Flaked coconut
    1/2 c  Finely chopped Brazil nuts
 
  Servings: 2 pounds
  
  DIRECTIONS: In saucepan, mix sugar, molasses, hot water, butter and salt.
  Stir over low heat until a small amount of the mixture forms a soft ball
  when dropped in cold water (240-F). Remove from heat; add chocolate; do not
  stir. Cool to 150 F, and stir until chocolate is well blended. Add 2 cups
  nuts and coconut. Pour into buttered 8x8x2" pan, and press in 1/2 cup nuts.
  Let stand in cool place several hours before cutting in squares.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Truffes Au Chocolat (Chocolate Truffles)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      3 oz Chocolate
  1 1/2 oz Butter
      2 oz Powdered sugar
      2 tb Fresh cream
 
  Preparation: Put cream, butter and grated chocolate into a pan. The
  chocolate need not be grated fine. The cream can be replaced by skimming
  the top off raw milk poured into a wide basin and allowed to settle. Melt
  butter, chocolate, and cream in a double boiler, stirring to mix well. When
  melted, remove the double boiler from the fire, leaving the hot water in
  the bottom pan to keep it warm. Sift the powdered sugar in slowly, so that
  it will not form lumps, stirring constantly. Let stand 24 hr. in a cool
  place. (In winter, 12 hr. in a cold room will do.) At the end of this time,
  cut a piece of this chocolate about the size of a small nut, using a knife
  or spoon. Roll it into a ball in the palm of the hand until the outside of
  the bonbon begins to melt a little. Then roll it in grated or granulated
  chocolate, which will stick to it perfectly. Let stand 2 hr. before
  serving, but in a place that is not too cold, because these truffles are
  better when they are a little soft. Instead of rolling them into balls, you
  can also shape them to look more like truffles.
  
  Source   : The Art of French Cooking Posted by: Rina de Jong
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Truffes Pralinees (Praline Truffles)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
    1/2 lb Good chocolate
           About 1/2 glass water
      3    Egg yolks
      3 oz Butter
  1 1/2 oz Praline paste
 
  Slowly melt the chocolate in the water, bring to a gentle boil, remove from
  the fire, and add the yolks, beating with a spatula, then replace on a low
  fire to poach the eggs in the chocolate. Do not stop beating. Remove from
  the fire and add the butter and the praline paste. Let cool, beating from
  time to time (this cooling takes a rather long time). When the mixture
  begins to solidify, take some with a spoon, place it in some grated
  chocolate (prepared in advance), and shape to resemble real truffles. These
  truffles keep a week. To keep a longer time, substitute vegetable
  shortening for the butter.
  
  Source   : The Art of French Cooking Posted by: Rina de Jong
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Truffles Royale
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Alcohol, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Orange liqueur
      7    Squares Semi sweet chocolate
           Dipping:
      8    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
 
  Combine cream and butter.  Bring to a boil over medium heat.  Remove from
  heat; add ligueur and chocolate. Stir until chocolate is entirely melted.
  chill mexture until firm enough to handle, about 3-4 hours. Using a
  teaspoon, form and roll mixture into small balls. Chill for another hour.
  
  Partially melt chocolate.  Then place chocolate over saucepan of lukewarm
  water (approx 88F) Place chilled truffle on a fork. Dip into chocolate;
  gently scrape away excess chocolate from under tines of fork. Place on
  waxed paper lined trays. Chill until chocolate is set.
  
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1988.  Bakers Chocolate Ad. Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Turkish Delight
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 49
 
      1 lb Granulated sugar
    1/4    Level tsp cream of tartar
  3 1/2 oz Cornflour
  7 1/2 oz Icing sugar
      2 oz Clear honey
      2 ts Distilled rose water
           Natural red colouring (opt)
 
  From "The Food Watch Alternative Cookbook" by Honor J Campbell.
  
  Lightly grease or oil a shallow 7" square tin.  Place granulated sugar and
  1/4 pt water in a heavy-based saucepan.  Stir over a moderate heat until
  sugar has dissolved.  Bring to boil and boil quickly, without stirring,
  until 'soft-ball' stage is reached (240 F on a sugar thermometer, or until
  a little, when dropped in  a saucer of cold water, will just form a soft
  ball).  Remove from heat, stir in cream of tartar and then leave on one
  side.  While syrup is cooling mix 3 oz  cornflour and 7 oz icing sugar in a
  large saucepan with a little cold water, taken from a measured 1 pt. Add
  remaining water.  Bring to the boil, stirring all the time and cook for 2
  min.  Reduce heat and gradually pour the cooled syrup into the cornflour
  mixture, beating well with a wooden spoon. Bring to the boil and boil for
  20-30 min over a low heat, stirring continuously, when mixture should be
  very pale straw in color and transparent.
  
  Add honey and rosewater, mix thoroughly.  Pour half the mixture into
  prepared tin.  Put a Tbs of the remainder into a cup, add a little natural
  red food coloring and mix well.  Add the colored mixture to the remainder
  left in the pan and mix well.  Pour over the mixture already in the tin.
  Leave until quite cold.  Dip a sharp knife into icing sugar and cut Turkish
  Delight into 1" bars.  Mix 1/2 oz cornflour with 1/2 oz icing sugar and
  roll bars in mixture to coat evenly.  Leave for 3-4 hours, then cut into 1"
  squares and coat again in mixture.  Leave overnight. Pack.
  
  Makes 49 pieces.
  
  ~-- GEcho/beta * Origin: Now we're cooking! (Virginia Beach, VA) (RA
  1:275/99) **
  
  Conf: [100] - Cooking            [Echo] From: THERESA MERKLING Number:
  15336 To: MARGE CLARK Date: 01/28/92 13:19 Subj: Qbook Refer: NONE Read:
  [N/A]                                 Private: No
  
  In a message to Pat Stockett <26 Jan 92 20:08> Marge Clark wrote:
  
  MC> (me, I'm hoping for multiple keyword search...I'd LOVE to be able MC>
  to scan for both cake and chocolate at the same time!
  
  Me too.  Ever since I started using Qbook I've worked at really specific
  keywords in the hopes that some day I could do just that. . . bread,
  buttermilk. . . etc.
  
  ~-- GEcho/beta * Origin: Now we're cooking! (Virginia Beach, VA) (RA
  1:275/99) **
  
  Conf: [100] - Cooking            [Echo] From: THERESA MERKLING Number:
  15337 To: ALL Date: 01/28/92 13:35 Subj: Apple Pie **CR** Refer: NONE Read:
  [N/A]                                 Private: No
  
  Here are a few more that may be keepers. . .
  
  ~Begin Recipe Export- QuikBook version 0.96 Beta A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Twice-Cooked Divinity
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Dash salt
      2    Stiffly beaten egg whites
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Stir sugar into syrup, water and salt until dissolved; boil to medium ball
  stage or 240-degrees. Slowly pour 1/3 of mixture over egg whites, beating
  constantly. Cook remaining syrup to very hard ball stage or 265 degrees.
  Beat syrup into candy mixture. Continue beating until mixture holds its
  shape; stir in vanilla. Drop from teaspoon onto greased cookie sheet; swirl
  each piece to a peak.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Two Minute Velvet Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      1    Milk chocolate chips (12 oz)
      1    Semisweet chocolate (6 oz)
      1 cn Sweet condensed milk (14 oz)
    1/3 c  Confectioners sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Grease a 8" x 8" pan.  Microwave the chips and condensed milk, uncovered,
  in a 2 quart bowl, on high, for 2 minutes.  Stir until smooth.  Stir in
  sugar and vanilla, then add nuts until well blended.  Pour into a prepared
  pan, and spread evenly.  Chill until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Two Toners
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Syd's book
   Servings:  1
 
     12 oz Chocolate Chips
     12 oz Butterscotch Chips
    1/2 c  Chopped Walnuts
      2 tb Cooking Oil
           Mini Marshmallows
 
  Melt butterscotch chips and 1 tablespoon of oil in top of double boiler
  over hot, not boiling water.  Stir in walnuts.  Pour into pan.  Arrange one
  layer of mini-marshmallows on top.  Melt chocolate chips and 1 tablespoon
  of oil in top of double boiler over hot, not boiling water. Pour over
  marshmallows.  Chill.  Use a hammer and chisel to cut.  From: Syd's
  Cookbook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Valerie's Kids Snack
 Categories: Kids, Candies
   Servings:  6
 
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Honey
      1 c  Wheat germ
           Shredded coconut or:
           Chopped nuts
 
  1. In bowl, blend peanut butter, honey and wheat germ.  Roll into small
  balls
  
  2. Roll balls in coconut or nuts.  Refrigerate.
  
  Eat when chilled and hardened.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Vassar Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  1
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Squares (2 oz) unsweetened
           -chocolate
      1 c  Light cream
      1 tb Butter
 
  Fudge was popular in the 19 th cntury at women's colleges. These recipes
  come froma booklet in 1905.
  
  Combine sugar, coarsely chopped chocolate, and cream.  Cook overmoderate
  heat, stirring only until sugar and chocolate have melted.  Continue
  cooking until mixture reaches 238 degrees or until a few drops tested in
  cold water form a soft ball. Remove from heat, add butter, and cool
  slightly. Beat until fudge begins to harden, then transfer to a buttered
  platter. Cut intosquares before the fudge is absolutely firm. Makes a
  little more than 1 pound. VARIATIONS: To make Wellesley Fudge, add 1/2 lb
  of marshmallows when the candy is removed from the heat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Velveeta Cheese Fudge
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      1 lb Margarine or Butter
      1 lb Velveeta Cheese
      1 c  Cocoa
      4 lb Powdered Sugar
      2 c  Nuts, Chopped
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt margarine and cheese together.  Mix in remaining ingredients.  Spread
  in greased pan. Cool. Cut in squares. Keep in refrigerator. Makes enough
  for a big party.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Very Old Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  White sugar
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 c  Milk or cream
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Mix the first 4 ingredients, stirring occasionally. Boil until soft to
  medium ball stage. Cook, add vanilla and beat with a wooden spoon until
  stiff. Add nuts and cherries if desired. For chocolate fudge, add 2 tbls.
  cocoa.
  
  From the book "Treasured Mennonite Recipes" by Mennonite Community Relief
  Sales Volume 1
  
  AR/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Victoria Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Sweet cream
      1 c  Coconut
    1/4 c  Chopped candied cherries
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Chopped candied pineapple
      1 ts Almond or rose flavoring
    1/4 c  Chopped figs
 
  Combine cream, butter, and sugar.  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).
  Remove from fire.  Cool to room temperature. Beat until creamy. Add chopped
  fruit and coconut.  Add flavoring. Pour into well-buttered shallow pan. Cut
  in squares. Mrs. Martin Nelson, Homestead, MI.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Vinegar Taffy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Vanilla or other flavoring
           -such as orange or lemon, or
           -use:
    1/2 ts Peppermint or:
      1 oz Bitter chocolate, grated
 
  From Grandma Ruby's recipe file: newspaper clipping
  
  Cook sugar, water, corn syrup, salt and vinegar until a few drops of the
  mixture will make a hard ball in cold water, 260 degrees on a candy
  thermometer.  Pour onto a greased dish or platter, sprinkle flavoring over
  top and turn the outer edges of the candy in toward the center until cool
  and firm enough to handle.
  
  Best results are obtained in pulling if the tips of the thumbs and fingers
  are dipped in cornstarch or fat. Use only the fingertips to pull taffy.
  When mixture can be handled, take up and pull out with both hands. Fold
  over and pull out again.
  
  As the mixture becomes cooler and the longer it is pulled, it will become
  stiffer and can be pulled out in a longer strand.  Pull until it is
  difficult to pull out and the mixture seems quite firm.
  
  Pull into long thin strips and cut immediately with greased scissors and
  roll each piece in powdered sugar or wrap in wax paper. Store cooled taffy
  in an air tight container in a cool dry place.
  
  If the taffy sugars, it can be recooked by putting it in a pan with 2
  Tablespoons corn syrup and 1/4 cup water.  Stir until dissolved and then
  recook according to original directions.
  
  Finely chopped nuts or fruit, as well as other flavorings, are added as the
  taffy is being pulled.
  
  I wish I had a date for this...I'd say recipe is at _least_ 30 years
  old...possibly 40, maybe even more...  This is a lesson to all of you to
  date your recipes, including newspaper clippings!
  
  From Florence "Ruby" Williams' files.
  
  Valerie Whittle
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Vinegar Taffy
 Categories: Candies, 1941
   Servings:  6
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Vinegar
           Few grains salt
 
  Combine all ingredients.  Boil to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F).  Cool.
  Pull until white and porous.  Cut in 1 inch pieces.
  
  The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Walnut Candy
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 36
 
  1 1/2 c  Walnuts, coarsely chopped
    2/3 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Packed light brown sugar
      1    - 14 oz can sweetened
           -condensed milk
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  To toast walnuts, spread in a single layer in a 9" glass pie plate.
  Stirring every 2 minutes, microwave on high 6 minutes or until toasted.
  
  Place butter in a 2 quart glass measure. Microwave on high 1 minute. Blend
  in brown sugar and condensed milk. Stirring every 2 minutes, microwave on
  high 8 to 9 minutes or until mixture is a medium caramel color. Stir in
  vanilla and beat with a wooden spoon for 2 to 3 minutes. Fold in walnuts.
  Pour into buttered 8" square dish. Cool to lukewarm; then refrigerate until
  set. Cut into squares. Makes 36 pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Walnut Creams
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 24
 
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
  4 1/2 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
           Food coloring
           Walnut pieces
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix well first 4 ingredients. Knead until smooth. Divide; color
  half pink and half green. Shape in 3/4" balls, and press a piece of walnut
  on each. Let stand until firm.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Walnut Penuche Drops
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 30
 
      1 c  Light brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Light cream
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 1/2 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix first 4 ingredients in saucepan. Cook, stirring, until a
  small amount of mixture forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water
  (238-F). (This takes 25 to 30 minutes.) Remove from heat; add butter and
  vanilla. Beat until blended; add walnuts, and stir until coated. Drop
  quickly by dessert-spoonfuls onto waxed paper.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Whiskey Balls
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings: 36
 
      3 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
    1/2 c  Finely chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      2 c  Confectioner's sugar
    1/2 c  Bourbon
      3 tb Light corn syrup
           Salt, if desired
 
  1.  Blend together the crumbs, nuts, cocoa, 1 cup confectioner's sugar,
  bourbon, corn syrup, and a dash of salt.  Form into small balls the size of
  walnuts.
  
  2.  Roll each ball in the remaining 1 cup confectioner's sugar and place on
  a cookie sheet.  Chill in the refrigerator for several hours or overnight.
  
  Note:  It is traditional in the South to use bourbon, but rye may also be
  used. This confection -- or at least a version of it -- was an early
  Southern version of those chocolate truffles that became the rage for
  chocolate lovers during the 1980s in this country. The whiskey balls are
  made, of course, with cocoa rather than chocolate.
  
  ~-From Craig Claiborne's "Southern Cooking"
  
  ~-Lovingly hacked in for the FIDO Cooking Echo by Wesley Pitts, the
    Bourbon Cowboy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: Whiskey-Sour Popcorn Balls
 Categories: Candies
   Servings:  6
 
      2 qt Popped popcron
 
  Approximately 1/2 cup dry whiskey sour mix (2 packets of individual drink
  mix 1/2 cup sugar 1/4 tsp salt 1/4 cup light corn syrup 1/2 cup water 1/2
  tsp vinegar
  
  Preheat oven to 250. Place popcorn in a large 4 inch deep buttered baking
  pan.  Keep warm in over. Combine other ingredients in a large saucepan.
  Cook until mixture reaches 250 on a candy thermometer. Remove popcorn from
  oven. Pour syrup mixture over popcorn.  Mix well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: White Chocolate-Coffee Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
      1 tb Instant espresso or coffee
           -powder
     14 oz White chocolate, very finely
           -chopped
      2 tb Kahlua
           Dipping chocolate:
      1 lb White chocolate, very finely
           -chopped
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      3 tb Chocolate-covered coffee
           -beans, very finely chopped
 
  1. To make the truffles: In a medium saucepan, bring the cream and espresso
  powder to a boil.  pour over the chocolate and whisk until completely
  melted.  whisk in the Kahlua. Refrigerate until completely chilled and
  firm.
  
  2. With a tsp, place pieces of the chocolate onto a foil-lined baking
  sheet.  Refrigerate to firm; roll into balls and refrigerate again for
  about 30 minutes.
  
  3. To prepare the dipping chocolate: In the top of a double boiler set over
  hot water, place the chocolate and oil. stir until almost melted. Remove
  the top of the double boiler from the heat and stir until the chocolate has
  completely melted.  continue to stir until the chocolate has cooled and
  reaches a temperature of 90 degrees.
  
  4. Prepare 2 baking sheets by lining with aluminum foil.  Dip each candy
  center in the melted chocolate, shake off the excess and place on the
  baking sheet.  When you have dipped a row of candies, top each with a
  little of the chocolate- covered coffee bean.  Before each dipping, stir
  the chocolate vigorously with your fingers.  If the centers become too
  soft, chill for about 30 minutes.
  
  5. Let the candies set for about 2 hours before storing in refrigeration.
  If the centers start to come through the bottoms of the chocolates, as
  often happens with soft mixtures, dip the bottoms again in melted and
  cooled chocolate.
  
  Source:  Seattle Times Kitchen
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: White Christmas
 Categories: Candies
   Servings: 30
 
      3 c  Kellogs Rice Bubbles
    3/4 c  Icing sugar
      1 c  Mixed dried fruit
      1 c  Desiccated coconut
      1 c  Powdered milk
    250 g  COPHA, melted, cooled
 
  1. Combine all the dried ingredients in a large mixing bowl and stir in the
  Copha. Mix well. 2. Press the mixture into a greased 30cm x 20cm lamington
  tin and refrigerate overnight. Serve cut into squares & lightly dusted with
  icing sugar.
  
  Hint.   250 gm of COPHA can be quickly and easily melted in the Microwave
  oven using the "Medium-High" cycle (70% power) for about 5-7 minutes. Stir
  and cool slightly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: White Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
   Servings:  1
 
      1 c  Sugar
           Water
      2 ea Egg whites
           Nuts
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Corn syrup; white
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cook 1 c. sugar and water to soft ball stage. Fold into stiffly beaten egg
  whites. In another kettle, cook at same  time sugar, syrup and a little
  water to hard ball stage. Pour into first mixture. Add vanilla and beat
  until it begins to harden. Add nuts if desired and pour on buttered plate.
  Cut into squares.
  
  Source: Mrs. Susie Woolard, Jacksontown Grange, Licking County, OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.07
 
      Title: White Russian Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
   Servings:  6
 
  1 3/4 lb Milk chocolate, divided
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Kahlua
 
  1.   Chop finely 1 lb of the chocolate.  Melt in a double boiler to 120
  degrees.  Measure the cream into a 3-quart saucepan and bring just to the
  boil.  Remove from the heat and cool to 120 degrees.  Add the chocolate to
  the cooled cream and stir until the mixture is smooth.
  
  2.   Stir the Kahlua into the chocolate, mixing well.  scrape onto a baking
  sheet and refrigerate until firm.
  
  3.   Finely grate the remaining 3/4 lb of the chocolate.  (This is easiest
  to do using the grater blade of a food processor.) Remove the filling from
  refrigeration and form into small rough balls.  Place on a baking sheet
  lined with wax paper.
  
  4.   Roll the truffles in the grated chocolate, pressing gently to adhere.
  
  5.   Refrigerate overnight.  Remove from refrigeration 15 minutes before
  serving.  Note:  these truffles do not hold well at room temperature.
 
      Title: Chow Mein Candy Clusters
 Categories: Candies, Appetizers, Snacks
   Servings:  6
 
     12 oz Butterscotch Morsels
      3 oz Chow Mein Noodles
      2 c  Salted Peanuts
 
  Melt butterscotch bits in top of double boiler.  Remove from heat and
  immediatesly stir in chow mein noodles until all are coated then quickly
  stir in peanuts.  Drop on wax paper with tablespoon.  Let cool until firm.
  Makes about 2 dozen.  VARIATION:  Substitute 2 cups Rice Krispies for chow
  mein noodles for Clusters Royale.  A lighter and less bludgeoning snack.



                           CHILI LIST



                       Table of Contents:




                    ARCADIAN EIGHT BEAN CHILI
          BILL PFEIFFER'S "LOS VENGANZA DEL ALMO" CHILI
                        BLACK BEAN CHILI
                   "CAPITOL PUNISHMENT" CHILI
                          CHASING CHILI
                        CHILI POBLANO PIE
                 CHILI WITH LAMB AND BLACK BEANS
               C.V. WOODS WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP CHILI
                    DYNAMITE CHILI WITH BEANS
            FRED DREXEL'S  1981 WINNING RECIPE CHILI
                      GREEN CHILI WITH PORK
             JAY PENNINGTON'S JUST PLAIN GOOD CHILI
                 KATHY HIRDLER'S FIRE CAMP CHILI
                      MARGO KNUDSON'S CHILI
                  NEVADA ANNIE'S CHAMPION CHILI
                        NEW MEXICAN CHILI
                        NUMERO UNO CHILI
                    OAKWOOD FEED STORE CHILI
                         RENO RED CHILI
                 ROAST BOAR AND BLACK BEAN CHILI
                          SEAFOOD CHILI
               SEN. BARRY GOLDWATER'S EXPERT CHILI
             SEN. JOSEPH MONTOYA'S NEW MEXICAN CHILI
                        TEXAS BEEF CHILI
                      TEXAS CHILI CON CARNE
                          VENISON CHILI
       1981 WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP BUTTERFIELD STAGELINE CHILI





Anne Rosensweig's

                    ARCADIAN EIGHT BEAN CHILI

1/4 lb  each of the following dried beans:  kidney, white, pink,
        black, red, pinto, cranberry, and navy
1 lb    bacon
5       large onions, peeled and chopped
2/3 C   minced garlic
1/4 C   toasted coriander seeds, ground
1/4 C   ground cinnamon
1/4 C   paprika
1/4 C   cayenne pepper, or to taste for the timid of tongue
1/2 C   ground dried Poblano chili peppers
108 oz  (#10 can) Italian plum tomatoes, with juice
12 oz   beer
5 lb    lean ground beef
        salt to taste

In a large pot, soak the beans together overnight in water to cover.

Drain and add fresh water to cover.  Cook at a simmer for  1 1/2
hours or until beans are just tender.

While the beans are simmering, heat a large skillet.  Mince the bacon
and cook it until it begins to crisp.  Add the onions and garlic and
cook over medium heat for 5 minutes.  Add all the spices and the
ground Poblanos and cook another 5 minutes.  Add the tomatoes with
their juice and the beer.  Simmer for half an hour.

In another pan, cook the beef until the pink color disappears.  Drain
and add it to tomatoe mixture.

When the beans are fully cooked, drain them, reserving the liquid,
and add the beans to the meat/tomato mixture.  Salt to taste and let
the mixture simmer for about 1 hour.  If it is too dry, add some of
the bean liquid.

Serves 25

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, make ahead, Arcadia, hearty, entertain


Bill Pfeiffer, 1982 World Champion Chili

                  "LOS VENGANZA DEL ALMO" CHILI

1 T     oregano
2 T     paprika
2 T     MSG (monosodium glutamate)
11 T    Gebhardt's Chili powder
4 T     cumin
4 T     beef bouillon (instant, crushed)
36 oz   Old Milwaukee beer
2 lb    pork, cubed (thick butterfly pork chops)
2 lb    chuck beef, cut into cubes
6 lb    ground rump
4       large onions, finely chopped
10      cloves garlic, finely chopped
1/2 C   Wesson oil or kidney suet
1 tsp   mole (powdered), also called mole poblano
1 T     sugar
2 tsp   coriander seed (from Chinese parsley, cilantro)
1 tsp   Louisiana Red Hot Sauce (Durkee's)
8 oz    tomato sauce
1 T     Masa Harina flour
        salt to taste

In a large pot, add paprika, oregano, MSG, chili powder, cumin, beef
bouillon, beer and 2 cups water.  Let simmer.

In a separate skillet, brown meat in 1 lb. or 1 1/2 lb. batches with
Wesson oil or suet.  Drain and add to simmering spices.  Continue
until all meat is done.

Saute chopped onion and garlic in 1 T. oil or suet.  Add to spices
and meat mixture.  Add water as needed.  Simmer 2 hours.  Add mole,
sugar, coriander seed, hot sauce and tomato sauce.  Simmer 45 min.

Dissolve masa harina flour in warm water to form a paste.  Add to
chili.  Add salt to taste.  Simmer for 30 minutes.  Add additional
Louisiana Hot Sauce for hotter taste.

Makes 1 pot.

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, winner, 1982, make ahead

                          BLACK BEAN CHILI

4  C      Dried black beans, sorted and rinsed
2  T      Cumin seed
2  T      dried oregano, preferably Mexican
1/2 C     Olive oil
2         large onions, chopped
1 1/2 C   finely diced green bell peppers
3  T      minced garlic
4 1/2 tsp Hungarian paprika
1 tsp     cayenne pepper
1 tsp     salt
3  C      crushed tomatoes in puree
4         fresh Jalapeno peppers, seeded and deveined, finely chopped
1         large Red bell pepper
6  oz     Goat cheese, crumbled
          Sour cream
          warm flour tortillas

Place beans in large pot and cover with cold water.  Bring to a boil.
Remove from heat and let stand 2 hours.

Drain beans and return to pot.  Add enough cold water to cover by two
inches.  Cover and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer until
beans are tender but not mushy, about 2 hours.  Add water as
necessary.

Drain beans, reserving 3 cups liquid.  Return beans to pot along with
1 cup of the cooking liquid.

Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 325 degrees.  Place cumin and oregano
in small baking pan.  Roast until fragrant, shaking occasionally,
about 10 minutes.

Heat oil in heavy skillet.  Add onions, green pepper and garlic.
Stir over medium high heat for 3 minutes.  Add cumin and oregano
mixture, paprika, cayenne, and salt.  Cook until onions are soft,
about 10 minutes.  Mix in tomatoes and jalapenos.  Bring to a boil.
Gently stir into the beans.  If necessary, thin with reserved liquid.

Char and peel the red bell pepper.  Dice into 1/4 pieces.  Place 1 oz
goat cheese in each bowl.  Top with chili.  Garnish with sour cream
and diced red bell pepper.  Pass warm tortillas separately.

Serves 6 or more.

KEYWORDS:  meatless, vegetarian, spicy, hearty, make ahead
-----


Bill Pfeiffer's 1980 World Champ. Chili

                     "CAPITOL PUNISHMENT" CHILI

1 T     oregano
2 T     paprika
2 T     MSG (monosodium glutamate)
9 T     Chili powder, light
4 T     cumin
4 T     beef bouillon (instant, crushed)
24 oz   Old Milwaukee beer
2 C     water
4 lb    extra lean chuck, chili grind
2 lb    extra lean pork, chili grind
1 lb    extra lean chuck, cut into 1/4" cubes
2       large onions, finely chopped
10      cloves garlic, finely chopped
1/2 C   Wesson oil or kidney suet
1 tsp   mole (powdered), also called mole poblano
1 T     sugar
1 tsp   coriander seed (from Chinese parsley, cilantro)
1 tsp   Louisiana Red Hot Sauce (Durkee's)
8 oz    tomato sauce
1 T     Masa Harina flour
        salt to taste

In a large pot, add paprika, oregano, MSG, chili powder, cumin, beef
bouillon, beer and 2 cups water.  Let simmer.

In a separate skillet, brown meat in 1 lb. or 1 1/2 lb. batches with
Wesson oil or suet.  Drain and add to simmering spices.  Continue
until all meat is done.

Saute chopped onion and garlic in 1 T. oil or suet.  Add to spices
and meat mixture.  Add water as needed.  Simmer 2 hours.  Add mole,
sugar, coriander seed, hot sauce and tomato sauce.  Simmer 45 min.

Dissolve masa harina flour in warm water to form a paste.  Add to
chili.  Add salt to taste.  Simmer for 30 minutes.  Add additional
Louisiana Hot Sauce for hotter taste.

Makes 1 pot.

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, winner, 1980, make ahead

Great Chili

                          Chasing Chili

1 lb      ground lean pork
2 1/2 lbs ground chuck
1 1/2 lbs onions, chopped
1 lb      green peppers, chopped
5 c       tomatoes,chopped
1/2 lb    pinto beans
1 1/2 T   oil
2         cloves garlic
1/2 c     chopped parsley
1/2 c     butter
1/3 c     chili powder
2 T       salt
1 1/2 t   pepper
1 1/2 t   cumin seeds
1 1/2 t   MSG
water

Soak beans in water to cover overnight. Drain, cover with cold water
and simmer until beans are tender, about 1 hour. Add tomatoes ans
simmer 5 min longer.

Saute green peppers in oil until tender, add onions and cook until
tender.  Stir frequently. Add garlic and parsley.

In another skillet, melt butter and add chuck and pork. Brown 15 min
until crumbly.. Add to onion mixture and stir in chili powder. Cook
10 min and add mixture to beans.

Season with salt, pepper, cumin seeds and MSG. Simmer, covered 1
hour, then remove cover and simmer 30 minutes longer. Skim fat from
top.

Serves 10

KEY WORDS: chili, entertain kids, leftovers, main dish, make ahead,
outdoors, spicy, meat , beef, cold weather, freezes well


                          CHILI POBLANO PIE

12      large fresh Poblano chilies
1/2 lb  Monterey Jack or Chihuahua cheese, cubed
1/4     small yellow onion, coarsely chopped
1       large garlic clove, halved
6       eggs
3/4 tsp salt

                            Crema Fresca:
1 1/2 Cups  whipping cream
3 T.        sour cream

Make the Crema Fresca ahead of time:  mix cream and sour cream
together.  Cover and let stand at room temp. until thickened, 8 hours
or overnight.  Chill until ready to use.

Char the chili peppers over a gas flame until blackened on all sides.
Wrap them in a plastic bag and let stand for 10 minutes to steam.
Peel and core the chilies.  Remove seeds, rinse and pat dry.

Preheat oven to 350 F.  Generously butter a 9" pie pan (preferably
porcelain or stoneware with 2" sides).  Open up chili peppers and
arrange around sides of pan skin side down, point toward center of
pan, extending about 1/2" above rim.  Cover bottom of pan with
chilies.

Finely grate cheese with onion and garlic in a processor using on/off
pulses, about 30 seconds.  Add eggs and salt.  Process until smooth,
stopping to scrape down the sides, about 15 seconds.  Mix in the
Crema Fresca (the Mexican equivalent of creme fraiche).  Pour this
filling over the chilies.  Curl the edges of the chilies over the
filling.

Bake until golden brown and a knife inserted in the center comes out
clean, 45 to 50 minutes.  Cover chili edges with foil to prevent
burning, if necessary.  Cool for 5 minutes before cutting.  Serve hot
or at room temperature.

Serves 6 main course servings.

KEYWORDS:  custard, quiche, light Mexican, main dish, spicy, baked


                 CHILI WITH LAMB AND BLACK BEANS

1 3/4 C    Black beans, sorted and rinsed
2  Qt      Water, or more as needed
2  lb.     Lamb bones
4          Thyme sprigs    |
4          parsley sprigs  |  bouquet garni
1          Bay leaf        |
3          Garlic clove, crushed
6  T.      Olive oil
2          large yellow onions, chopped
1 1/2 lb   Lamb shoulder, ground
2  T.      chili powder
2  T.      fresh minced ginger
2  T.      fresh Thyme, minced  OR
2 tsp      Dried Thyme, crumbled
1  T.      red hot chilie, seeded and deveined (Jalapeno)
1 1/4 tsp  Dried Marjoram, crumbled
3/4 tsp    fresh ground white pepper
3/4 tsp    fresh ground black pepper
3/4 tsp    cayenne pepper
3/4 tsp    allspice
2  lb      Italian plum tomatoes, coarsely chopped
1 1/4 C.   light Zinfandel wine
           salt as needed

FOR BEANS:  Soak beans overnight in 2 qt. water.  In a large
saucepan, bring beans to a boil.  Add lamb bones and bouquet garni
and 1 crushed garlic clove.  Reduce heat and simmer till beans are
tender but not mushy.  Skim occasionally and add more water if
necessary to keep beans submerged.  2 hrs.

FOR CHILI:  Heat 3 T. oil in large heavy saucepan over moderate heat.
Add onions and cook until soft, about 10 minutes.  Add 2 cloves
garlic, minced, and stir about 3 minutes.  Transfer onion and garlic
mixture to a plate, using a slotted spoon.  Add remaining oil to pan.
Increase heat to med.  high.  Add lamb and cook until no longer pink,
breaking up with spoon, about 6 min.  Return onion mixture to pan;
add chili powder, ginger, thyme, red chili, marjoram, peppers and
allspice.  Stir 5 minutes.  Add tomatoes ( and half of their liquid,
if canned).  Bring to a boil then reduce heat and simmer for another
5 minutes.  Add 3/4 Cup of Zinfandel.  Simmer, skimming occasionally,
for 30 minutes.

Drain beans and reserve the cooking liquid.  Discard the bones and
garni. Add beans and remaining Zinfandel to chili mixture.  Salt and
season as necessary.  Simmer 30 minutes, adding bean cooking liquid
as needed to keep chili moist (or soupy, as you like it).  This chili
is best made ahead and allowed to season in the refrigerator for 24
hours.  Reheat before serving.

Serves 8.

KEYWORDS:  spicy, main dish,
-----
                 C.V. Woods World Championship Chili

1(3 lb)  chicken
1 1/2 qt water
1/2 lb   beef suet
1/4 c    finely chopped celery
7 c      peeled, chopper tomatoes
2 t      sugar
5 lbs    ctr cut pork chops , thin
4 lbs    flank steak
3        medium onions, cut in 1/2 inch pieces
3        green peppers, cut in 3/8 inch pieces
1 lb     jack cheese, shredded
6        long green chiles
1 t      oregano
1 T      ground cumin
1/2 t    MSG
1 T      pepper
4 t      salt
5 T      chili powder
1 t      cilantro
1 t      thyme
1 c      beer
2        cloves garlic, finely chopped
         juice of lime

Cut chicken into pieces and combine with water in large saucepan.
Simmer 2 hours then strain off broth.

In 2 qt saucepan combine celery, tomatoes and sugar and simmer1 1/2
hours.

Boil chiles 15 min until tender, remove seeds and cut in 1/4 in
squares.

Mix oregano, cumin, MSG,pepper, salt, chili powder, cilantro and
thyme with beer until all lumps are dissolved. Add tomato mixture,
chiles, beer mixture and garlic to chicken broth.

Melt suet to make 6-8 T droppings.Pour 1/3 of suet drippings into
skillet, add 1/2 pork chops and brown. Repeat for remaining pork
chops. Add pork to broth mixture and cook slowly 30 min.

Trim all fat from flank steak and cut into 3/8 cubes. Brown flank
steak in remaining drippings about 1/3 at a time. Add to pork
mixture. Return to simmer and cook slowly about 1 hour. Add onions
and green peppers, simmer 2-3 hours longer, stirring with wooden
spoon every 15-20 min. Cool 1 hour then refrigerate 24 hours.

Reheat chili before serving. About 5 minutes before serving time, add
cheese.  Just before serving, add lime juice and stir with wooden
spoon.
Serves 12

KEY WORDS: chili, entertain, kids, main dish, outdoor, leftovers,
make ahead, spicy, meat, beef, freezes well

Food & Wine 2/82

                    DYNAMITE CHILI WITH BEANS

2 C     water
1/2 C   dried pinto beans, soaked overnight then drained
1 T     oil or bacon drippings
1       onion, sliced
1/2     green bell pepper, cored, seeded and chopped
1       garlic clove, minced
2/3 lb  boneless pork, cut into 1/2" cubes
1/3 lb  beef stew meat, cut into 1/2" cubes
16 oz   canned whole tomatoes, drained
2 T     chili powder
1       diced green chile, Jalapeno or Serrano
1 tsp   dried oregano, preferably Mexican, crumbled
2 tsp   cumin
1/3 C   dry red wine
        salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste
2 T     prepared tortilla flour or masa harina, mixed with water
        to form a paste (optional)

Combine water and beans in medium saucepan and bring to boil over
medium high heat.  Reduce heat and simmer until tender, about 1 hour.

Heat oil in large skillet over med-high heat.  Add onion, green
pepper, and garlic.  Saute until tender.  Transfer to Dutch Oven and
set aside.

Add pork and beef to same skillet.  Brown well.  Stir into vegetables
in Dutch Oven.  Add beans and their liquid along with tomatoes and
seasonings.  Mix well, cover and simmer 1 hour.  Add wine and cook,
uncovered, 30 minutes.

Season with salt and pepper.  If mixture is too liquid, stir in some
of the tortilla flour paste to thicken.

Serves 4

KEYWORDS:  chili, hearty, spicy
-----

Fred Drexel, 1981 World Champion Chili


              FRED DREXEL'S  1981 WINNING RECIPE CHILI

2 1/2 lb beef brisket, cut into 1" cubes
1 lb     lean pork, ground
1        large onion, chopped finely
2 T      Wesson oil
         salt and pepper to taste
3        cloves garlic, minced
2 T      diced green chilies
8 oz     tomato sauce
1        beef bouillon cube
12 oz    Budweiser beer
1 1/4 C  water
4 T      chili powder (or 6 T if desired)
2 1/2 T  ground cumin
1/8 tsp  dry mustard
1/8 tsp  brown sugar
1        pinch of oregano

In a large kettle or Dutch oven, brown the beef, pork and onions
in hot Wesson oil.  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Add remaining
ingredients.   Stir well.   Cover and simmer 3 to 4 hours, until
meat is tender and chili is thick and bubbly.  Stir occasionally.

Serves 4

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, winner, 1981, make ahead

Manhattan Chili Co., NYC


                        GREEN CHILI WITH PORK

1/2 C   olive oil
2       large yellow onions, chopped, about 4 cups
8       medium garlic cloves, peeled and chopped
8       fresh Jalapeno peppers, stemmed and minced
3       carrots, peeled and sliced crosswise into 1/2" pieces
1 1/2 T dried oregano, preferably Mexican
3 lb    boneless pork shoulder, cut into 1/2" cubes
5 C     chicken stock or canned broth
        salt
28 oz   crushed Italian plum tomatoes, drained
1       potato, peeled and grated (1= 8 oz)
12      large Poblano chilies (1 1/2 lb), roasted and peeled *OR*
28 oz   can whole roasted mild green chilies, drained

In a large heavy duty casserole or Dutch oven (about 5 qt.) warm the
oil over medium heat.  Add onions, garlic, Jalapenos, and carrots.
Cook,stirring once or twice, for 10 minutes.  Stir in oregano and
pork cubes and cook until pork has lost its pink color, about 20
minutes.  Stir occasionally.

Stir in the chicken stock, 1 tsp of salt, crushed tomatoes and the
grated potato.  Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and cook
partially covered, for 1 1/2 hours, stirring occasionally.

Cut the Poblano into 1/2" strips.  Add them to the chili and cook ,
stirring often, for another 30 to 45 minutes or until the pork is
tender and the chili is thickened to your liking.  Taste for correct
seasonings and let cook another 5 minutes.  Serve hot.

NOTE: To roast Poblanos, stick them on a serving fork and turn over a
gas burner until thoroughly charred.  Wrap chilies in a paper bag
after you roast them.  When cool, rinse under cold running water,
rubbing off the burned skin.  Pat dry and de-stem chilies.

Serves 6 generously.

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, hearty, main dish, make ahead, freezes well
-----


               Jay Pennington's Just Plain Good Chili


oil
3       medium onions, finely chopped
2       medium green peppers, finely chopped
3       stalks celery, finely chopped
8 lbs   coarsely ground beef
1 can   (6oz) tomato paste
2 can   (1lb-13oz) cans stewed tomatoes
2 can   (1lb) tomato sauce
1 can   (7oz) chile salsa
3       cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 jar   (3oz) chili powder
1       medium jalapeno chili, seeded and chopped
2 T      salt
         Oregano
         garlic salt
         coarsely ground pepper

Thinly cover bottom of heavy 2 gal pot with oil. Saute onions, green
peppers and celery 10 min.. Add meat and cook 10 min or until brown.
Stir in tomatopaste, stewed tomatoes and tomato sauce.

Add chopped garlic, chili powder, salt, dash oregano, chile salsa and
jalapeno. Cook 30 min, season to taste with garlic salt and pepper,
then simmer2 1/2 hours. Stir every 10-15 min.

Serves 16

KEY WORDS: chili, entertain, freezes well, kids, leftovers, main
dish,
make ahead, outdoor, spicy, meat, ground beef, beef,
-----


                   KATHY HIRDLER'S FIRE CAMP CHILI


100 lb  pinto beans
48      large onions, chopped
4 C     jalapeno chilies with juice
40 lb   meat (ham, sausage, pork, bacon ends, ground beef, etc)
4 C     chili powder
        salt to taste

Soak beans overnight, then raise to a boil on high heat.

Add all ingredients and simmer until tender (about 6 hours).

Add water as necessary.  Stir occasionally.  Makes 60 gallons.

Serves 1200 approximately.

KEYWORDS:  chili, feeds large number of hungry firefighters, party,
entertain, crowd, stew
-----

Winner, 1987 World Championship


                      MARGO KNUDSON'S CHILI


2       medium onions, chopped
6       cloves garlic, approximately
2 T     kidney suet or lard (caudal fat???)
2 oz    Gebhardt's Chili Powder
1/2 oz  regular dark chili powder
3 lb    cubed or coarsely ground prime beef
        white pepper to taste
1 C     beef broth
3 oz    bulk pork sausage
1       medium green chili pepper, minced
1/2 tsp hot New Mexico chili powder
1/2 oz  cumin
1/2 tsp coriander (optional)
6 oz    tomato sauce
1/2 C   oregano tea (1 T. oregano steeped in hot water 30 min.)
1/2 oz  salt
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper (if needed)
dash    Tabasco Sauce

Saute onions and minced garlic in suet about 3 minutes.  Add
Gebhardt's and regular chili powder.  Mix well.

Brown beef in another pan, a pound at a time, adding white pepper
while browning.  Add meat to onions and spices, using a little broth
to keep from sticking.

Saute sausage and green chili pepper together 2 minutes.  Add to the
pot along with meat and onions.  Cook 15 minutes.

Add New Mexico chili powder, cumin, coriander, tomato sauce and
remaining broth.  Mix well and cook for 30 minutes.

Add oregano tea (strained).  Cover and cook over low heat about 2
hours or until meat is tender, stirring occasionally.

During the last 20 or 30 minutes add salt, cayenne pepper and
Tabasco, if needed.

Serves 6

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, make ahead, main dish, hot
-----

LaVerne Harris, aka Nevada Annie, Winner 1978


                  NEVADA ANNIE'S CHAMPION CHILI


3       medium onions
2       medium green peppers
2       large stalks celery
2       cloves garlic
1       small Jalapeno pepper, fresh, seeded & diced
8 lb    lean chuck, coarsely ground
7 oz    diced green chiles
28 oz   stewed tomatoes
15 oz   tomato sauce
6 oz    tomato paste
6 oz    chili powder
2 T     cumin
        Tabasco sauce to taste
12 oz   beer, divided into two portions
12 oz   mineral water
3       bay leaves
        garlic, salt and pepper to taste

Dice and saute the first five ingredients.  Add the meat and brown
it.

Add the remaining ingredients, including half the beer (Annie sez to
drink the remainder!).  Add water just to cover the top of the
mixture.

Cook about 3 hours on low heat, stirring often.

Serves 24

KEYWORDS:  chili, make ahead, winner, 1978, spicy
.pa

Food & Wine Mag., March 85


                        NEW MEXICAN CHILI

1/3 C   corn oil
3       large onions, chopped
6       large garlic cloves, minced
5 T     mild ground chiles, preferably New Mexican
1 tsp   HOT ground chiles or Cayenne pepper (more for hotter)
2 T     ground cumin
1 lb    lean pork, ground
5 lb    boneless beef chuck, trimmed of fat, cubed 1/2"-3/4"
2 tsp   oregano
2 1/2 t salt
1/2 tsp fresh ground black pepper
28 oz   Italian plum tomatoes, canned, with juice
24 oz   good amber beer (New Amsterdam, Dos Equis)
13 oz   beef broth
2       bay leaves
34 oz   kidney beans

In a large flame-proof casserole or stockpot, heat the oil.  Add the
onions.  Cover and cook over moderate heat for 5 minutes.  Uncover,
increase heat to moderately high and cook, stirring frequently, until
the onions begin to brown, 5 to 10 minutes.

Add the garlic and cook another 1 or 2 minutes, until fragrant.  Add
the chiles and cumin.  Cook, stirring, 1 minute then add the pork,
mashing and stirring, until the meat browns and begins to separate.

Add the beef, oregano, salt and pepper.  Increase heat to high and
cook, stirring frequently, until the meat loses most of its redness,
about 10 - 15 minutes.

Add the tomatoes and their liquid, the beer, beef broth and bay
leaves.  Bring to a boil, partially cover and reduce heat to
moderate.  Cook until the beef is very tender and the sauce is
reduced to a chili-like consistency, about 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

In a medium saucepan, heat the beans in the liquid from the cans.
Drain when hot and either add to the chili or serve on the side along
with other accompaniments such as steamed rice, sour cream, grated
cheddar cheese, thinly sliced scallions, onions, or chips.

Serves 10

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, meat stew, make ahead, New Mexico
-----

Manhattan Chili Co., NYC


                        NUMERO UNO CHILI


1/4 C     olive oil
2         large yellow onions, chopped, about 4 cups
2 lb      coarsely ground beef (shank, shoulder or chuck)
2 lb      coarsely ground pork
          salt
1/3 C     mild, unseasoned chile powder
3 T       ground cumin, from toasted seeds, if possible
3 T       dried oregano, preferably Mexican
3 T       unsweetened cocoa powder (NOT DUTCH PROCESS!)
2 T       ground cinnamon
1 1/2 tsp cayenne pepper, or to taste
4 C       tomato juice
3 C       beef stock or canned broth
8         medium garlic cloves, peeled and minced
2 T       yellow cornmeal as optional thickener (more as needed)
32 oz     dark red kidney beans (drained and rinsed)

In a large skillet, over medium heat, warm the oil.  Add onions and
cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, about 20 minutes.

Meanwhile in a 4 to 5 qt. heavy flameproof casserole or Dutch oven
over medium heat, combine beef and pork.  Season with 2 T salt and
cook, stirring often, until meat has lost all its pink color and is
evenly crumbled, about 20 minutes.

Scrape onions into casserole with meats.  Stir in chili powder,
cumin, oregano, cocoa, cinnamon and cayenne pepper.  Cook, stirring,
5 minutes.  Stir in tomato juice and beef stock.  Bring to a boil
then lower heat and simmer, uncovered, for 1 hour.

Taste, correct seasonings and simmer another 30 minutes or until
chili is thickened to your liking.  Stir in garlic.  To thicken chili
further or to bind any surface fats, stir in the optional cornmeal.
Stir in the beans and simmer another 5 minutes.

Serves 6 or more.

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy but mild, main dish, make ahead, freezes well
-----
*NEW PAGE*

Winner of the 1985 NY State Chili Cook-Off


                    OAKWOOD FEED STORE CHILI


1 lb     Bacon, chopped
3 lb     lean beef chuck roast, cubed
1 1/2 lb regular hamburger, preferably chuck
2 lb     Pork roast,coarsley ground (Boston butt)
4 T      prepared garlic in oil
3        large onions
4 oz     canned chopped chilies (El Paso brand)
6        fresh Jalapeno chilies, chopped
5 T      freshly ground DRY Mexican chilies, Anaheim if possible
2 T      freshly ground DRY Ancho chilies
2 T      good quality chili pepper
1 1/2 T  Hungarian paprika
4 T      fresh ground cumin seed
1 T      fresh ground black pepper
2 T      MSG or Accent (optional)
1 T      Tabasco sauce
2 T      Worchestershire sauce
1 pt     beef stock
1 pt     canned tomatoes

Fry bacon in a heavy pot till crisp and the fat is rendered.  Remove
and reserve bacon.  Pour off most of the bacon fat into a heavy cast
iron skillet, leaving s small amount in the pot.  Brown the meat and
garlic in the skillet.

Saute onions in the fat remaining in the pot until soft.  Add the
meat, bacon, ground chilies, dried spices, the sauces, green chilies,
Jalapenos, stock and tomatoes.  Simmer for two hours.

Allow the chili to sit in the refrigerator for 24 hours to give
the spices a chance to intensify.

For garnishes, serve fresh chopped Jalapenos, chopped raw onions,
shredded Monterey or sharp Cheddar cheese, and saltines.

Serves 8 generously.

KEYWORDS: spicy, jalapeno, chilies
-----

Joe & Shirley Stewart's Championship Chili, 1979


                         RENO RED CHILI

3 lb    round steak, coarsely ground
3 lb    chuck steak,   "        "
1 C     Wesson oil or suet
        black pepper to taste
3 oz    Gebhardt's Chili powder
6 T     cumin
2 T     MSG
6       small cloves garlic, minced
2       medium onions, chopped
6 ea.   dried chili pods, boiled 30 minutes in water,
        (seeded & de-stemmed)  **OR**
3 oz    bottle of New Mexico pepper (???)
1 T     oregano, brewed in.....
1/2 C   Budweiser beer, like tea
2 T     paprika
2 T     cider vinegar
3 C     beef broth
4 oz    diced green chilies (Ortega brand)
14 oz   stewed tomatoes (or to  taste)
1 tsp   Tabasco sauce, or to taste
2 T     masa harina flour

Brown meat in oil or fat, adding black pepper to taste.  Drain meat
and add chili powder, cumin, MSG, garlic and chopped onion.  Cook
for 30 - 45 minutes using as little liquid as possible.  Add water
only as necessary.  Stir often.

Remove skins from boiled chile pods.  Mash the pulp and add to meat
mixture.  Strain oregano tea, then add to meat mixture along with
paprika, vinegar, 2/3 of the beef broth, green chiles, stewed
tomatoes and Tabasco sauce.  Simmer 30 - 45 minutes.  Stir often.

Dissolve masa flour into remaining beef broth then pour into chili.
Simmer another 30 minutes, stirring often.

Makes 1 potful.

KEYWORDS:  chili, winner 1979, spicy, make ahead
.pa



                   ROAST BOAR AND BLACK BEAN CHILI

1/4 C   bacon drippings
2       garlic cloves, crushed
3 T     chili powder
1/8 t   ground cumin seeds
1/4 t   black pepper
4 lb    saddle of wild boar (OR loin of pork with bone in)
1 lb    black turtle beans
2 T     olive oil
1/2 C   diced salt pork
2       onions, chopped
3       cloves garlic, minced
1       Jalapeno pepper, seeded, deveined and minced
1 C     cooked, smoked ham, diced (1 cup = 5 oz)
2 C     beef broth
1       bay leaf
1 tsp   chopped fresh oregano (or half that if dried)
1 tsp   red wine vinegar
2 T     dark rum
4       scallions, thinly sliced
2       eggs, hard cooked, sieved

In a medium bowl, combine the bacon drippings with the crushed
garlic, two tablespoons of the chili powder, the cumin, and freshly
ground pepper.  Spread over the wild boar and let stand while
preparing the beans.

In a large pot, cover the beans with cold water.  Heat to boiling and
boil for two minutes.  Turn off the heat and let stand  one hour.
Drain.  Wipe out the pot and return beans, cover with cold water and
heat to boiling.  Reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes.  Drain.

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.  Cook the salt pork in boiling water
for five minutes.  Drain and pat dry.  Heat the oil in a heavy, deep
casserole.  Stir in the salt pork and cook over medium heat until
golden, about 3 min.  Stir in the onion, minced garlic, and Jalapeno
pepper.  Cook 1 minute.  Stir in the ham and cook two more minutes.

Stir the remaining chili powder into the onion mixture.  Add the
beans, broth, bay leaf, oregano, vinegar and rum.  Mix well.  Place
the saddle of boar on top of the beans, cover and place in the middle
of the oven.  Cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until internal meat
thermometer reads 170 degrees.  Turn the meat twice and stir the
beans.  Add more broth if dry.

Remove the meat and allow it to stand, covered, for 10 to 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, skim the fat from the chili.  Cut the meat from the bone
and into thin slices. Layer it over the beans.  If desired, stew,
covered, to tenderize the meat.  Serve with hot rice and a sprinkling
of scallions and sieved eggs.

Serves 6 generously.

KEYWORDS:   chili, game, boar, spicy, party, entertain
-----


                            SEAFOOD CHILI


1/4  C    Olive oil
2  C      chopped onions
2         Leeks, white part only, trimmed and chopped
1         large celery stalk, chopped
8         garlic cloves, minced
5 tsp     dried oregano, preferably Mexican
35 oz     Italian plum tomatoes, undrained if canned
16 oz     Clam juice
2  C      dry red wine
1/2 C     "Santa Cruz Red Chili Paste"
5 tsp     freshly toasted cumin seed
1 T.      salt
1 tsp     cayenne pepper
2         red Bell peppers,seeded, deveined, cut into 1/2 inch dice
12        Littleneck clams
12        mussels, scrubbed and debearded
1 1/2 lb  Scrod or other lean white fish, cut into 1 inch pieces
12        large shrimp, peeled and deveined
3/4 lb    Bay scallops
1/2 C     minced fresh cilantro (Chinese parsley, coriander)

Heat oil in heavy Dutch oven over low heat.  Add onion, leeks, and
celery.  Cover and cook until tender, about 15 minutes.  Add garlic
and oregano, cook another 10 minutes then add tomatoes, breaking up
with a spoon.  Blend in the clam juice, wine, chili paste*, cumin,
salt and cayenne.  Bring to a boil, skimming occasionally.  Reduce
heat and simmer, partially covered, for about 1 hour, skimming.  Mix
in bell peppers.  Simmer uncovered for 20 minutes.  Cool.
Refrigerate overnight.

Bring chili to a boil.  Adjust heat so that liquid simmers briskly.
Skim well and adjust seasonings.  Add clams and mussels.  Cover and
cook until shellfish open, 5 to 10 minutes.  Discard any that do not
open.  Gently stir in scrod and shrimp.  Cover and simmer for  a
minute.  Add scallops, cover and simmer until fish is just opaque,
about 2 minutes.

Ladle chili into bowls.  Top with cilantro.

"Santa Cruz Red Chili Paste" is available from The Santa Cruz Chili
and Spice Co., P.O. Box 177, Tumacacori, AZ  65640.

Serves 6 generously.

KEYWORDS:  Spicy, meatless, make ahead, main dish
-----

Great Chili


               Sen. Barry Goldwater's Expert Chili


1 lb    coarsely ground beef
1 lb    dried pinto beans
1 can   (6oz) tomato paste
2 c     chopped onions
3 T     hot unspiced chili powder
1 T     ground cumin
salt
water

Soak beans in water , covered overnight. In a large Dutch oven, cook
beef until browned, stirring to keep crumbly, Drain off drippings, if
needed.

Add tomato paste, onions and drained beans.

Mix chili powder, cumin and season to taste with salt.Stir into
mixture.
Bring to boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer until beans are tender,
about 5 hours.

Serves 6

KEY WORDS: chili, entertain, kids, main dish, make ahead, outdoors,
spicy,
meat, beef, freezes well
-----

Great Chili


               Sen. Joseph Montoya's New Mexican Chili


1 1/2 lbs round steak, cut in 1/4 cubes
2         cloves garlic, minced
2 T       oil
1 1/2 t   flour
3 T       unspiced chili powder
2 c       water
1 t       salt

Heat oil in saucepan of Dutch oven, add meat and cook and stir 10
min. add garlic when meat is partially browned. Sprinkle with flour
and stir 1 min longer. Add chili powder, water and salt. Cover and
simmer 45 min.

Serves 4

KEY WORDS: chili, entertain, kids, leftovers, main dish, outdoor,
spicy, meat, beef, freezes well
-----


                          TEXAS BEEF CHILI


2 lb    beef chuck or shin, in 1/2" cubes
8 T     olive oil
5 T     med-hot chili powder
1 lb    Spanish chorizo sausage, sliced 1/4" thick
3       medium onions, chopped
8       garlic cloves
1 T     oregano, preferably Mexican, crumbled
2 tsp   cumin, ground
2 tsp   salt
1 tsp   Fresh ground pepper
4 lb    canned Italian plum tomatoes, drained and chopped
24 oz   beer, Dos Equis or other Mexican beer
6 oz    tomato paste

Toss meat with 3 T. olive oil and 2 T. chili powder in non-aluminum
bowl.  Let stand in refrigerator overnight.

Heat 3 T. oil in large, heavy skillet over med-hi heat.  Brown the
meat in batches (do not crowd) on all sides, about 5 minutes.
Transfer to a large pot, using slotted spoon.  Add chorizo to skillet
and brown well.  Transfer to pot using slotted spoon.  Reduce heat to
med-lo.  Add more oil to skillet, if necessary.  Add onions and cook
until translucent, about 10 minutes.  Add garlic, chili powder,
oregano, cumin, salt and pepper.  Stir 3 minutes then transfer to
pot.  Stir in tomatoes, beer and tomato paste.  Bring to a boil then
reduce heat.  Cover and simmer until meat is very tender, stirring
occasionally, about 3 hours.  Uncover during last hour if necessary
to thicken liquid into sauce.

Some good accompaniments are pinto beans and salsa as side dishes.

Serves 6 generously.

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, Texas, make ahead
-----


                        TEXAS CHILI CON CARNE


6       pequin chilies (small but very hot chilies!)
6       ancho chilies (large dried chilies)
2 lb    stewing beef, cut up into 1/2" cubes
1 T     olive oil
2       bay leaves
1 T     cumin, ground
2       cloves garlic, peeled
2 tsp   oregano, preferably Mexican
2 T     paprika
1 tsp   sugar
        coarse salt
        fresh ground black pepper

Tear the chilies in strips and pour two cups boiling water over them.
Let soak for 30 minutes.  Drain, reserving the liquid, and set aside.

Heat the oil in a heavy casserole and brown the beef cubes.  Add the
chilie soaking liquid and bring to a boil.  Add the bay leaves, turn
down the heat and let simmer for an hour.  Meanwhile, puree the rest
of the ingredients, including the chilies, with a half cup of water,
or more if needed, in a blender or processor.  Add the puree to the
meat and let simmer for 30 minutes more, adding water as necessary.

Serves 4

KEYWORDS:  chili, spicy, Texas, main dish
-----


                            VENISON CHILI

3 T       vegetable oil
1         large onion, finely chopped
2         large cloves garlic, minced
1         small hot green chilie pepper, minced (optional)
1 1/4 lb  venison, cut into 1/2" cubes
3/4 lb    ground venison (or ground pork)
28 oz     can of crushed tomatoes
3 T       red wine vinegar
3 T       ground chili powder
2 T       ground cumin
2 T       Worchestershire sauce
1/2 tsp   cayenne pepper, plus a pinch
1         large green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
2 tsp     salt or to taste
          freshly ground black pepper to taste
10 oz     can of red kidney beans, drained
3 T       Masa Harina (or fine cornmeal) mixed with a little water
          into a smooth paste for thickening chili

Heat the oil in a very large skillet.  Stir in the onion, garlic, and
chile pepper.  Saute over med-hi heat until the onion is just tender,
about 5 minutes.

Add the cubed and the ground venison and continue cooking for about
four to five minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon, until the ground
meat is no longer red.  Add all the remaining ingredients except the
beans and the masa harina (or cornmeal).  Bring the mixture to a boil
then reduce heat to medium and cook uncovered for 30 minutes,
stirring occasionally.  The stew should be fairly thick.

Stir in the kidney beans and the masa harina and heat through.  Taste
and adjust the seasonings.

Makes 6 cups.

KEYWORDS:  chili, venison, game, make ahead, main dish, stew, hearty,
spicy, easy, entertain
-----


Great Chili


         1981 WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP BUTTERFIELD STAGELINE CHILI


4       medium onions, minced
10 lbs  lean beef brisket, finely chopped
1/4 c   oil
1 1/2   cloves garlic, minced
2 lbs   ground pork
1 can   (7oz) whole green chiles, minced
1 can   (15oz) tomato sauce
1 lb    whole tomatoes, finely chopped
1 T     cumin
1 t     salt
1 t     oregano
1 T     dry mustard
1 oz    tequila
1       can beer
2 jar   (3oz) chili powder
2       beef bouillon cubes

Brown onions, and beef in oil. Stir in garlic, pork, chiles, cumin,
oregano, salt, dry mustard, tomato sauce, tomatoes, tequila, beer,
chili powder and bouillon cubes.

Bring to boil, then reduce heat and simmer 2-3 hours. Stir
occasionally.  Do not stir the last 30 min before serving.

Serves 25

KEY WORDS: chili, entertain, freezes well, kids, main dish, make
ahead,
outdoor, spicy, meat, beef.
-----
ted potato.  Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and cook
partially covered, for 1 1/2 hours, stirring occasionally.

Cut the Poblano into 1/2" strips.  Add them to the chili and cook ,
stirring often, for another 30 to 45 minutes or until the pork is
tender.

Newsgroups: rec.food.recipes
From: Ward Tomlinson <TOMLINSON@neurophys.wisc.edu>
Subject: Fajitas Collection (Long)
Message-ID: <YHFQOZA@taronga.com>
Organization: Taronga Park BBS
Date: Mon, 3 May 93 16:11 CST
Lines: 519

FAJITAS COLLECTION
Here, as promised, is the collection of Fajitas recipes that I have managed 
to put together, ranging from the quick-and-easy to the wonderfully 
elaborate.  Thanks to all those who sent me their recipes or 
collections.  I have tried to list the author's names beside their
contribution, but this was not always possible (apologies to those I 
have missed).  

Bon appetite all,
Ward Tomlinson
tomlinson@neurophys.wisc.edu


--------- FAJITAS 1

Well, I wing my fajitas every time I do them, but here's a guess at the
measurements.

2 Tablespoons oil
1 1/2 lbs boneless, skinless chicken breasts and thighs cut in thin slices
1 large onion, cut in slivers from pole to pole
1 green bell pepper, cut in slivers pole to pole
1 red bell pepper, cut (you guess it) in slivers pole to pole
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 Tablespoons chili powder
3 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon black pepper
ground red pepper (to taste)
salt (to taste)
flour tortillas

In a large wok, warm the oil.  Cook the chicken slices until done, stir
regularly.  Add everything except tortillas.  Mix well.  Cook covered. 
Stir every few minutes.  It's done when the peppers are tender and the
vegetables are starting to get browned in spots.  Serve with warmed flour
tortillas.  (I warm them individually in the microwave for 20 secs.)

Additional toppings for the fajitas can include salsa, sour cream,
avacados, and tomatos.  To me cheese is a sacrilege; but, to each his own.

NOTE:  My grocer carries "fajita tortillas".  These are smaller and
thicker than ones I would use for burritos.  They hold up much better with
the fajita filling.

NOTE 2:  If tortillas are not handy, use pita halves.  They work great.

- Jeff
jshearer@beta.tricity.wsu.EDU



--------- FAJITAS 2

Fajitas are marinated skirt steak. This is the diaphragm muscle
in the cow. Anything else is NOT a true fajita.

INGREDIENTS
1 skirt steak for each 4 people ( this is the diaphragm muscle)
Kraft Zesty Italian Salad Dressing.

Flour tortillas
Refried beans
Guacamole
Grated cheddar cheese
diced tomatoes
Salsa

Marinate skirt steak in enough salad dressing to cover meat,
for a full 24 Hours, NOT LESS!

grill steak over charcoal (mesquite is best)

slice steak with the grain into thin strips

warm tortilla (works great to wrap in Saran wrap and heat in microwave)
spread some beans down center of tortilla, add some meat, top with
other condiments, roll into a tube and enjoy.


Not bad, but if you live in a part of the country where you can get "real"
Mexican food products, you can marinate the meat in something called "mojo
criollo". This comes in bottles and consists of oil, vinegar and an
assortment of other spices. It's specifically for this kind of use. It's
available in most Supermarkets around here.

Tom's recipe mentions a couple of important points:
1) Marinate the meat overnight at least. It makes a big difference. You
can also do this with skinless, boneless chicken breasts.

2) Slice the meat *after* cooking, not before. The pre-cut beef and chicken
products "for fajitas" you see some places just don't come up to snuff.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------


--------- FAJITAS 3:  (from USENET cookbook)

Fajitas originated in Texas as a way to make cheap meat
palatable.  Unfortunately, it was too successful. It is
still palatable, but because the word is out that fajitas
are so delicious, the meat isn't cheap any more. Because
this is not a traditional Mexican dish but a recent inven-
tion of Mexican immigrants, there is no fixed formula for
it. Many different Kinds of marinade are used; this one is
adapted from a recipe given to a friend over the phone by
Tortuga's in Austin, Texas.

INGREDIENTS (serves 8)
     3 lb      skirt steak
     2         large yellow onions
     2 Tbsp    vegetable oil
     16        flour or whole-wheat tortillas
     2 cups    grated cheese
     3 cups    guacamole
	  MARINADE
     1 cup     lime juice
     1 Tbsp    ground black pepper
     2 Tbsp    garlic, minced
	  PICO DE GALLO
     1/2 cup   fresh cilantro, chopped
     2         scallions, chopped (green onions)
     2         large tomatoes, chopped
     1 tsp     garlic, minced

PROCEDURE
  (1)  Combine marinade ingredients in a large glass baking dish.

          (2)  Peel the fatty membrane from both sides of the
       skirt Steak. This requires a very sharp knife. Add
       meat to marinade and marinate for at least 4
       hours, preferably overnight. Keep it in the refri-
       gerator if you marinate overnight.

          (3)  Make the pico de gallo: combine all of the
       ingredients in a small serving bowl.

          (4)  Slice the yellow onions into 1/4-inch slices, and
       cut each slice into a semicircle. Grill the meat
       until  it is cooked slightly less than the way you
       like it. Meanwhile, saute' the onions in the oil
       until they are soft. Use a large frying pan that
       will have enough room for the meat later.

          (5)  After removing the meat from the grill, slice it
       into strips that are cut across the grain. The
       strips should be 3-4 inches long and 1/4 inch
       thick. Add the strips to the onions in the pan,
       and fry for another minute or two.

          (6)  Place on the table the pan full of meat, the bowl
       of pico de gallo, a basket with the tortillas, a
       bowl with the guacamole, and a bowl with the
       grated cheese. You may wish to provide picante
       sauce in addition.

          (7)  Each person makes their own fajita by taking a tor-
       tilla, spooning some of the meat onto it, then
       adding their choice of each of the other ingredients
       in whatever combination they want.

NOTES
     Skirt steak is somewhat like flank steak: somewhat tough,
     and with a very stringy texture. It is covered on both sides
     with a fatty membrane that must be removed or the meat will
     be very tough. The key to good fajitas is the proper removal
     of this membrane.

     Fresh-squeezed lime juice is best, but bottled will do.

     Some people from out of state choose to put sour cream on
     their fajitas.

 Time: 45 minutes preparation, several hours marinating, 
10 minutes cooking.  Precision: no need to measure.

From: whitley@mksol.dseg.ti.com
Organization: Texas Instruments



--------- FAJITAS 4:   CHICKEN FAJITAS

Prep: 10 Min.   Marinade: 1 Hour   Cook: 10 to 15 Minutes
Serves: 6


1 1/2 lbs. skinless, boneless chicken breasts
  1/4 cup  bottled taco sauce (Tabasco or the like)
    3 tbs  lime juice (best if real limes used)
    3 tbs  tequila
    2 ea   jalapeno peppers, seeded and minced
    1 ea   crushed dried habanero
    2 ea   garlic cloves, minced
    1 tsp  salt
  1/2 tsp  ground cumin
   12 ea   flour tortillas
           Salsa                       \
           Guacamole                    \
           shredded lettuce              \ as accompaniment
           sour cream                    /
           shredded cheese              /
           Pico de Gallo               /


           Rinse chicken breasts and pat dry.  Trim off any fat or    
gristle.  In a large bowl, combine taco sauce, lime juice, tequila,
jalapenos, garlic, salt, and cumin.  Add chicken and toss to coat.
Cover and marinate, tossing occasionally, 1 to 2 hours at room
temperature, or up to 12 hours refrigerated.

           Prepare a hot fire.  Set chicken on an oiled grill 4 to
6 inches from heat.  Grill, turning and basting with marinade
several times, until chicken is white throughout but still moist,
8 to 10 minutes.  Let stand 3 to 5 minutes before cutting or tearing    
into large strips.

           While chicken is standing, heat tortillas directly on   
grill for 20 to 30 seconds per side, or wrap in foil in 2 packages,
6 tortillas to a package, and warm, turning several times, 3 to 5
minutes.

           To serve, put chicken strips on tortillas.  Top with 
salsa, guacamole, shredded lettuce, and sour cream.  Roll up and
eat.

Serving Suggestions: Serve with "Black Bean Salad" and top shelf
                     margaritas!

Enjoy!


FAJITAS 5: Shrimp Fajitas

None of the recipes I've tried seemed worth posting, until this
one.  It's so darned good, I had to share it.  

1 pound shrimp, shelled
1 cup lightly packed chopped cilantro
1 clove garlic, pressed
1/3 cup lime juice
4-6 flour tortillas
1 Tbsp vegetable oil
2 green bell peppers, sliced
1 onion, sliced
1/2 cup plain non-fat yogurt
green salsa (optional)

Marinate shrimp in lime juice with garlic and cilantro for 20
minutes at room temperature.  Warm tortillas in foil in oven.
Heat oil in skillet and saute bell peppers and onions for 10
minutes, stirring occasionally.  Take vegetables out and put
shrimp with juice in.  Cook on high heat about 3 minutes until
done (cut to test, should be opaque in center).  Put vegetables
back in pan, warm them up, add yogurt.  Place mixture on flour
tortillas, roll them up, and top with salsa.

This recipe came from a cookbook which I think was entitled
"Light & Lively" by Sunset...something like that.  As you can 
see, it is a low-fat as well as nutritious meal.  Yum yum!

lisap@olomana.soest.hawaii.edu (Lisa Petersen)
School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology


--------- FAJITAS 6

I have a very easy recipe that I use (I think I got it from the back
of the tortilla package).

Marinate strips of steak and or chicken in Italian Dressing for a couple
of hours.  (I have marinated over night)

Cook meat in hot skillet in a little bit of oil.  Add green pepper,
red pepper and onions (that have been sliced).  Add the rest of marinade
to the skillet and cook until the veg. are tender and the meat is done.
You can season with garlic, but I find the seasoning in the dressing
to be fine.

Serve on warmed tortillas with chopped lettuce, tomatoes and sour cream.

YUMMY! and its real easy.


Angie
33s@oasys.dt.navy.MIL


--------- FAJITAS 7

  LIME JUICE is our basic fajitas recipe.  Marinate the beef or chicken 
in lots of lime juice, at least a few hours.  Then we grill (if it's a fillet)
or saute (if it's strips or raining), sauteeing usually with cumin.

To serve:  my husband prefers plain meat with some fresh coriander leaves
added as he wraps in tortillas.  I want more vegies so I usually sautee
onions and peppers, usually with lots of cumin and some garlic, but the 
spices varies.  I also eat the fajitas with the fresh coriander, yogurt, 
and maybe chopped tomatoes or some salsa. 

The fresh coriander is essential for us.


  Aiko Pinkoski           Epoch Systems, Inc.
  aiko@epoch.com          8 Technology Drive
  uunet!epochsys!aiko     Westborough, MA  011581
                          (508) 836-4711 ext. 307


--------- FAJITAS 8:  Real Tex-Mex Fajitas

This is a fajita recipe by one of my dad's college buddies, Abel
Garcia, a native Texan.  The quantities are party-sized.

10 lbs. fajitas (flank or skirt steak)
4 lemons or limes plus rinds
1 can beer or wine
1 6oz can pineapple juice
2 tbsp vinegar
2 tbsp tenderizer
2 sweet onions, sliced (not diced)
8 cloves garlic, minced
1 tsp lemon pepper
1 tsp cumin
1/2 tsp oregano
1 tsp black pepper

Mix all the ingredients of the marinade together, then trim the meat.
Marinade the meat overnight (we put it in big ziplock bags) in the
refrigerator.  

Cook over a hot fire on the grill til medium.  Grill the onions too, 
if you like (fresh sliced bell peppers are also good).  Have the 
buffet ready when you start grilling the meat:  tortillas, diced 
tomatoes and onions, refried beans, guacamole, sour cream, grated 
cheese, pico de gallo, salsa, etc.  While the meat is still hot 
off the grill, slice it into strips and serve.


Laura Wallace

WallLau@iitvax
WallLau@karl.acc.iit.edu
WALLLAU@chico.acc.iit.edu


------------FAJITAS  9   Fajitas on the Grill
from the "El Paso Chili Company's Texas Border Cookbook" 
by Park and Norma Kerr

Here is a grand mixed fajitaparrilla ("grill"~skirt steak, lobster, chicken, 
and shrimp--a real party. On simpler occasions we halve the marinade 
and use just one or two of the main components.
     Two practical notes: The live lobsters can be replaced with 4 defrosted 
frozen lobster tails, slightly undercooked according to the directions on 
the package. And, although some grill manufacturers warn against heavy 
basting, Park has always just dumped all the remaining marinade over the 
fajitas on the grill (the fuming cloud of steam and smoke is full of flavor) 
and he reports it has not harmed his grill.

2 1/4 pounds (2 or 3 pieces) skirt steak
1 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breasts, halved 
      and trimmed of fat and connective tissue
1 pound (about 18) large shrimp, shelled and deveined
2 live lobsters (about 1 1/2 pounds each)

2 Tbsp plus 1 tsp salt
2 cups tomato-based bottled hot salsa
1 cup chopped red onion
1 cup packed fresh cilantro (stems may be used)
4 fresh jalapeno chiles, stemmed and chopped
1/4 C gold tequila
1/4 C fresh lime juice
1 cup amber beer, such as Dos Equis

24 6-inch flour tortillas, warmed
Pico de Gallo
Guacamole

     Bring a very large pot of water to a boil. Stir in 2 tablespoons 
salt, add the lobsters, and cook them, stirring once or twice, for 10 
minutes. The lobsters' tails, when straightened, should snap back in place, 
and the lobster meat should be almost fully cooked. Cool the lobsters to 
room temperature in a colander. Crack open the claws and body shell and 
remove the lobster meat in pieces as large as possible. The lobsters can be 
cooked up to 1 day in advance. Wrap the meat and refrigerate it.
     In a food processor, working in batches if necessary, puree together the 
salsa, red onions, cilantro, jalapenos, tequila, lime juice, and 1 teaspoon salt. 
Stir in the beer. In two or three shallow nonreactive dishes, combine the lobster 
meat, skirt steaks, chicken breasts, and shrimp with the marinade. Cover and 
let them stand at room temperature, stirring once or twice, for 2 hours. Thread 
the shrimp on skewers.
     Preheat a gas grill (medium-high) or light a charcoal fire and let it burn down 
until the coals are evenly white. Position the rack about 6 inches from the heat 
source. Lay the skirt steaks on the grill and spoon half the marinade over the meat. 
Lower the cover and cook 7 minutes. Turn the steaks. Lay the chicken breasts, 
lobster meat, and skewered shrimp on the grill, baste everything with the remaining 
marinade (there will be steam and smoke), and cover the grill. Cook another 7 minutes,
turning the chicken breasts, lobster meat, and shrimp at the halfway point, or until the 
steaks are medium-rare and the chicken, shrimp, and lobster are lightly browned 
and cooked through.
     Transfer the steaks and chicken breasts to a cutting board, tent them with foil, 
and let them rest 10 minutes. Keep the shrimp warm. Slice the lobster pieces 
about l/2-inch thick and keep them warm. Carve the steak and chicken breasts 
across the grain and at a slight angle into l/4-inch slices. Arrange the steak, chicken, 
lobster, and shrimp on a warmed platter and serve immediately, accompanied 
by the warmed tortillas, pico de gallo, and guacamole.


-----------FAJITAS 10  Winter Fajitas
from the "El Paso Chili Company's Texas Border Cookbook" 
by Park and Norma Kerr

These indoor fajitas are for the dead of winter, when the grill is 
buried under a snowdrift, or for any time, really, when you just don't 
want to cook outdoors. This marinade is slightly different from the 
one we use for our grilled fajitas (above), it boosts the flavor with chipotles 
and liquid smoke flavoring to make up for the lack of an open flame. 
Cook these in one or two heavy cast-iron skillets or on a large ridged cast-
iron grill pan that will fit across two burners. (Those cute little fajita skillets 
that come with a wood or wicker holder are useless for cooking on, but two or 
three can be preheated and used as serving pieces.) Be sure to turn off the 
smoke alarm before setting out to make this recipe.

2 l/2 to 3 pounds skirt steak, cut into -inch sections
Nonstick cooking spray
1 large onion (about 1 pound), peeled, halved, and cut into thin slices
2 large heavy sweet red peppers, stemmed, cored, and cut into julienne strips
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup tomato-based bottled hot salsa
1/2 C chopped red onion
1/2 C packed fresh cilantro (stems can be used)
1/4 cup olive oil
3 chipotles adobado, with clinging sauce
2 Tbsp tequila
2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1 Tbsp liquid hickory smoke flavoring
1/2 C amber beer, such as Dos Equis

18 6-inch flour tortillas, warmed
Pico de Gallo
Guacamole

note: "chipotles abobabo" are pickled peppers in tomato sauce

     In a food processor, puree the salsa, red onions, cilantro, 2 tablespoons of 
the olive oil, the chipotles, tequila, lime juice, and liquid smoke. Stir in the beer. 
In a shallow nonreactive dish, pour the marinade over the skirt steak and let it stand 
at room temperature, covered, turning it once or twice, for 2 hours.
     Heat one or two heavy cast-iron skillets or a cast-iron stove-top grill pan over 
medium-high heat. When they are very hot, lightly coat the skillets with nonstick 
cooking spray. Letting the excess marinade drip off, and working in batches if necessary, 
place the meat in the skillets. Cook, turning once or twice, until browned on the outside 
and medium-rare inside, 4 to S minutes per side. Transfer the meat to a cutting board 
and let it rest for 10 minutes.
    Meanwhile, in a large heavy skillet over medium heat, warm the remaining 2 tablespoons 
of olive oil. Stir in the onions and sweet red peppers, season with salt, and cook, covered, 
stirring once or twice, for 8 minutes.
    Cut the meat, across the grain and at a slight angle, into thin slices. Add the meat 
and any juices from the cutting board to the skillet with the onions and peppers. Raise 
the heat to high and cook uncovered, tossing and stirring, until the meat is heated through 
and the onions and peppers are lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Transfer to heated fajita 
pans or a large heated platter and serve immediately, accompanied by warmed tortillas, 
pico de gallo, and guacamole.


----------FAJITAS 11     BEEF FAJITAs

Ingredients:

Beef skirt steaks (you may have to ask the butcher for these outside the 
Southwest; they are inexpensive and readily available in the prime fajita areas 
of the country such as Texas) [Note that you can use flank steak if forced to 
but it just doesn't taste the same.]

Flour tortillas 

For the meat marinade:

Olive or other vegetable oil as preferred and about an equal amount of fresh 
lime juice (or a combination lime juice and white vinegar); salt; pepper to 
taste; minced garlic or garlic powder

Accompaniments:

salsa, raw sliced onions, shredded mild cheese, diced tomatoes, shredded 
lettuce, sour cream, etc.


First, marinate the skirt steaks in the oil/lime juice mixture as described 
above. Overnight in the refrigerator works well using a ziploc bag.  The amount 
of marinade depends on the amount of meat. [The lime juice imparts an 
incredibly sweet and fresh taste to the meat; you will love the effect.]

Prepare your accompaniments and have them ready for guests to use according to 
their own preferences.  Some people fry onions (instead of using them raw) and 
others cook some green pepper as accompaniments.  I personally think that this 
detracts from a simple fresh taste, but hey this is food, not medicine...

Grill the fajitas outside (over wood charcoal if you can get it)--over a medium 
hot fire this will require about 10 minutes a side.  After grilling, allow the 
skirt steaks to sit for a couple of minutes, then slice across the grain in 
relatively thin slices. 

Warm the flour torillas slightly (microwave will do nicely if you aren't a 
purist).

Allow people to assemble the fajitas themselves:  slices of meat rolled in the 
torillas together with accompaniments of their choice.  You may also want to 
have some hot pepper sauce and cilantro also at the ready.


This is a "can't lose" company dish; the meat when re-heated tastes good as 
left-overs as well.

Michael Karchmer
MAKARCHMER@gallua.gallaudet.EDU

From: moynes_r@qis.dofasco.ca (Richard Moynes)
Newsgroups: rec.backcountry
Subject: Jerky recipes
Message-ID: <1993Jan11.133033.1@qis.dofasco.ca>
Date: 11 Jan 93 13:30:33 GMT
Organization: Dofasco Inc, Hamilton, Ont. Can.
Lines: 585

Well, several people asked for this list of recipes so here it is.  Now you'll
know what to do next time you happen upon a herd of cows in a meadow at 10,000 
ft :-).  Having started a batch last night, I have a suggestion of my own to 
add: if this is your first batch, make sure you have some store-bought
jerky on hand for the inevitable feeding frenzy resulting from the aroma 
given off by the dehydrator.  If you're on a diet, you might consider going
elsewhere while it's running because I think I put on 10 lbs just from 
breathing the air :-).   For those who wanted to know, my dehydrator is
the el-cheapo K-TEL model.  I expect they're all pretty much the same since
the principle involved is very simple, but I won't be surprised when the
marketing people develop a 16-valve double overhead cam turbocharged model.

And thanks once again to those who sent in their recipes.

Richard
--
Richard Moynes                             Not speaking for
moynes_r@qis.dofasco.ca                    Dofasco Inc., Hamilton, Ont.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

We've made Jerky for years from beef and venison, and I believe
this will work for almost any kind of meat.

We cut the meat into thin strips, the thinner the strips the
crunchier the jerky comes out, maybe 1/4 " thick will make chewy
jerky.  By the way, cut all the fat off the meat as you're
stripping.

Lay out the strips on a cookie sheet lined with foil, turned up
at the edges so juice won't get over everything.  Lay out in
rows and a single layer.  Sprinkle liberally with black coarse
ground pepper and seasoned salt, or spices that you like the
taste of.

Set the oven to WARM, and leave in the oven overnite, or 8-10
hrs. This causes very slow drying.  Store in a plastic
container, jar, or can after well cooled.  Too much moisture
left in the meat will cause mold, and putting it away while warm
will cause sweating inside the container.

  -------------------------------------------

~Title: Blue Ribbon Jerky

  1/2   cup  dark soy sauce
  2     Tbs  Worcestershire sauce
  1     tsp  monosodium glutamate (optional)
  1/2   tsp  onion powder
  1/2   tsp  garlic powder
  1/4   tsp  powdered ginger
  1/4   tsp  Chinese Five-Spice Powder
  3     lbs  lean beef brisket, eye-of-round or flank steak,
             trimmed completely of fat and cut across grain into
             slices 1/8 inch thick*

Blend all ingredients except meat in small bowl.  Dip each piece
of meat into marinade, coating well.  Place in shallow dish.
Pour remaining marinade over top, cover and refrigerate
overnight.

Oven method:  Preheat oven to lowest setting (preferably 110 F).
 Place several layers of paper towels on baking sheets.  Arrange
meat in single layer on prepared sheets and cover with
additional toweling.  Flatten meat with rolling pin.  Discard
towels and set meat directly on oven racks.  Let dry 8 to 12
hours (depending on temperature of oven).

Dehydrator method:  Arrange meat on trays in single layer and
dehydrate 10 to 12 hours, depending on thickness.

Store jerky in plastic bags or in tightly covered containers in
cool, dry area.

*To aid in slicing meat thinly, freeze until ice crystals are
formed.


~Title: Chinese Beef Jerky

       3  Lbs.   Flank Steak or London Broil

   MARINADE

     1/2  Cup Light Soya Sauce
   4 1/2  Tbs Honey
   4 1/2  Tbs Dry Sherry
      6   Large  Cloves Garlic Minced
   1 1/2  Tbs Ginger Fresh Minced
   1 1/2  Tbs Red Pepper crushed
   1 1/2  Tbs Sesame Oil
          Dash White Pepper

Cut meat in half, lengthwise and slice diagonally crosswise into
paper thin strips 1 1/2 to 2 inches wide and 4 inches long.
Transfer to shallow pan. Combine marinade ingredients and rub
thoroughly into meat.  Arrange meat on racks and let dry at cool
room temperature overnight (do not refrigerate).

Preheat oven to 250 F. Line two large baking sheets with foil
and set wire racks on top of each baking sheet. Arrange meat on
racks in single layer. Bake 30 minutes.

Reduce heat to 175 F and continue drying meat another 40
minutes.  Meat should be lightly brown but not burnt. Let meat
continue to dry on racks at cool room temperature overnight
before packing into jars.

Dried meat can be brushed lightly with sesame oil for additional
flavor and shine. Makes about 36 pieces.

    Origin: InterConnect - Littleton, CO - (303)797-0296 (1:104/60.0)


SEVEN STEP JERKY

Basic ingredients are: garlic powder, onion powder, onion powder, black
pepper, soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, seasoned salt, Accent.  Also
knife and pan or bowl.

Slice three pounds of venison into strips about 3/8 inch thick to ensure
total saturation of the meat while it's marinating.  In container, combine
1/2 cup soy sauce, 1/2 cup Worchestershire, 2 tsp. Accent, 2 tsp. seasoned
salt, 2/3 tsp. garlic powder, 2 tsp. onion powder, adn 2/3 tsp. black
pepper.

Stir this mixture well with a spoon to dissolve all of the soluble
ingredients.  Now the marinaade is ready to be used.

Place the strips of meat in the marinade be sure they're completely
submerged.  Marinate overnight, turning if necessary.

Lay marinated meat strips on oven rack.  Cook for 6 to 8 (6 is better) at
150 degrees.  They get crisper the longer they bake.

Store finished jerky in zip-lock bags or other airtight containers to seal
in freshness.  Jerky will keep up to two years.



A good book on making beef jerky and other light-weight foods is:

    THE HUNGRY HIKERS BOOK OF GOOD COOKING
      by GRETCHEN McHUGH
       published by Alfred Knopf 1989
       ISBN 0-394-51261-8


just to give you the section on jerky, in case you don't find it,
quoting directly from the book::


   to make jerky, take a raw piece of beef round or chuck, quite lean
and slice it thin, across the grain.  Lay the slices across the racks
of the dryer for two days and nights -- test it by breaking a piece,
it is dry enough when it cracks in two when you break it. The smaller
and thinner you cut the pieces of meat before drying them, the quicker
they will get tender as you soak and cook them

(remember, its easier to slice thinly if the steak is partially frozen)
    One pound of sliced beef dries to 4 ounces of jerky, making
    a ratio of undried to dried meat of about 4:1.

Before drying the meat, you can season it with some combination of the
following spices: paprika, pepper, salt, or other concoctions like
lemon pepper or seasoned salt.  Garlic is wonderful on jerky.  I recommend
rubbing the meat with cut cloves of garlic before slicing it.

A marinade will change the taste slightly, and cause the meat to take longer
to dry.  Marinating tenderizes the meat however, acid in soy sauce and
wine, breaks down the tissues of the meat.


      SIMPLE MARINADE FOR BEEF JERKY


for 3lbs of lean beef:

   2 tablespoons soy sauce
   1/4 teaspoon salt
   2 drops of tabasco, or cayenne
    pepper to taste,
   ground pepper
    1 fresh garlic clove, minced

  slice the beef as thin as you can across the grain
 mix the marinade ingredients, put the meat in the mixture and
refrigerate for at least 12 hours, 2 days if possible.

 pat the meat dry, and set it on the dryer racks for 2-3 days. (check by
snapping a piece)

note for a stew or stirfry, cut beef into very thin strips 3-4 inches long,
for snack jerky simply slice the steak very thin.


      WINE MARINADE FOR BEEF JERKY

  for 2 pounds of lean beef (chuck, round, sirloin)

  1/2 cup red wine
  1 tablspoon red wine vinegar
  1 tablespoon olive oil
  2 fresh garlic cloves, minced
  2 tablespoons minced onion
  1 bay leaf
  pepper
  pinch each of thyme, oregano, and marjoram

slice the beef across the grain as thin as you can
mix the marinade ingredients, put meat in the mixture, and refrigerate
(12 hours -- to 2 days if possible)
as above, pat the meat dry, place on racks and dry for 2-3 days
(Note up here, meat drys within a day -- must be a difference in
humidity -- I find the snap test the best way to check, rather than
relying on number of hours drying time)

a couple of extra notes  --

before stir frying jerky, soak for 30 minutes, before using in a stew
soak it as long as you can, at least an hour

and pack dental floss or toothpicks  (Im sure you know this part!!)

anyway  --- hope this helps  -- I highly recommend the book, we
find it an excellent source of lightweight, filling recipes for
canoe trips -- and the jerky stirfry is usually a highlight of
any trip

I make up a lot of my own marinades -- one that works well is simply
honey mixed with minced garlic and soy sauce
lemon juice, brown sugar, and a little salt
(I usually through things
in until it tastes right)

or if you like thai food -- try mixing a peanut type marinade  -- we
love this one  -- peanut butter, with water, indonesian or sweet soy sauce,
sambal (red pepper sauce), lemon juice, -- just mix over low heat until
you have a sauce consistency and the taste seems right -- this is
excellent for stirfrys
anyway, experiment almost anything will work -- and its a lot cheaper and
a lot tastier than the stuff you buy (thats why we got into it in the
first place too)
cheers!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Biltong is a South African version of beef jerky.


Biltong is usually made from venison, beef or ostrich meat (the latter may
pose a problem to you, as would elephant biltong which is readily available
in RSA and in my view the most delish...) and during the cool, dry months
of the year (do you have any cool, dry periods?). Now that I live in Oz I
tend to use beef - the tender cuts are the best, fillet, rump and sirloin,
it is not cheap!

For every 25kg of meat allow
    1.25kg good salt,
    250ml brown sugar,
    50ml bicarb of soda,
    20ml salpetre,
    25ml ground pepper,
    100g coarsely ground coriander seed.

Cut meat across the grain into 5 - 7cm thick strips, trying to leave some
fat on each piece. Mix salt, sugar, bicarb, saltpetre and coriander and rub
this into the strips of meat. Layer meat in plastic or enamel container and
sprinkle a little vinegar over each layer. Leave for 24 - 48 hours. Dip
meat into a mixture of 500ml vinegar and 5 litres water. Pat dry, then hang
on s - shaped wire hooks about 5cm apart, free air circulation, for 2 - 3
weeks. If weather is not cool, make strips about 2cm thick. When dry (the
degree of dryness is a matter of personal taste) slice thinly and serve
with beer.
enjoy!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the first part of my jerkey summary...a few people had asked
for the recipies that I got.   I didn't get very many responses, but
thanks to those of you who were kind enough to reply.  Special thanks
to Bob (you know who you are) who sent me a bunch of recipies.  Anyway,
I'm going to post all of them, but only a few at a time, to build the
anticipation.  Since all the methods are essentially the same, I'll
put the method in first, followed by the various ingredient lists.

For measurements, tblsp = tablespoon and tsp =  teaspoon.

General jerkey method:

All recipies use 1 lb lean meat, thinly sliced. (3/16-1/4 in thick)

In a small glass bowl, combine all ingredients except meat.  Stir to mix
well.  Place meat 3-4 layers deep in a container, spooning sauce mixture
over each layer.  Cover tightly and marinate 6-12 hours in the 'fridge,
stirring occasionally and keeping the mixture covered.

I can't really help with drying instructions, but i'd say somewhere between
7-10 hours, depending on how you like it.

_The Recipies_

Mild Mexican Jerky
1 tsp salt               1/2 tsp crushed oregano
1/4 tsp pepper           1 tsp paprika
1 tsp chili powder
1/2 tsp garlic powder

Hawaiian Jerky
1 tsp salt                1 crushed garlic clove
1 tsp ground ginger       1/4 cup pineapple juice
1 tbs brown sugar         1/4 cup soy sauce
1/4 tsp papper
1/8 tsp cayenne pepper

Korean Jerkey
1/2 tsp salt              1 tbs dry sherry (if desired)
1/4 tsp pepper            2 tbs sesame seeds
2 tsp sugar               1/4 cup soy sauce
1 tsp MSG (if desired)

Hot & Tangy Jerky
1 tsp salt                2 cloves crushed garlic
1/4 tsp cracked pepper    2 tbs A-1 sauce
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper    3 tbs Worcestershire sauce
1 tsp onion powder        1/2 tsp paprika

Middle Eastern Jerky
1 tsp salt                1/4 tsp turmeric
1/8 tsp pepper            1/8 tsp ground cumin
1--1/2 tsp coriander      1/4 tsp chili powder
1/4 tsp ground ginger

Fiesta Jerky
1 tsp salt                1 tsp onion powder
1/4 tsp pepper            1/4 tsp ground cumin
1 tbs chili powder        1 tsp garlic powder


That's it for this post.  Still 7 recipies left to go, but my
fingers are getting tired.  And it's dinner time.  The only
recipie I've tried so far is the one for Hot & Tangy jerky, and
it's pretty good.  hopefully I'll be able to try the rest of them
when I have more time.

Hope you enjoy 'em.
Again, thanks to those who responded, and special thanks to Bob for
sending all the recipies I'm working on posting.

---------------------------------------------------------------

I've had a food dehydrator for about a year now, and have used it extensively
for backpacking foods. Nearly everything I've tried works great.

Here are all the recipes I've gotten from the net. There are some recipes
for jerked chicken at the end.

BTW I have never dried fowl in the dehydrator. I'm not sure whether it is
safe to do it or not because of samonella (sp?). If you have or get any
info on drying fowl, please send it along.

Happy drying!


------------------------------------------------------------------


>Anyone who has a recipe for Jerk Chicken, a spicy traditional jamaican
>recipe, please post, or email to me.  Thanks in advance.


I have a book by Helen Willinsky called Jerk: Barbecue from Jamaica.

I have so many recipes online now that I'm searching for some jerk
recipes to post (I remember some as being from this book and if they're
online I don't want to retype them).

Jerk: Barbecue from Jamaica, by Helen Willinsky
Available from:

Crossing Press
Freedom, CA, 95019
800-777-1048

				-babs
--



  SE> From: snewton@oac.hsc.uth.tmc.edu (Steven E. Newton)

  SE> Anyone who has a recipe for Jerk Chicken, a spicy traditional jamaican
  SE> recipe, please post, or email to me.  Thanks in advance.

I'm taking the liberty of answering even though I have /three/ recipes for it.

  -------------------------------------------
  GRILLED JAMAICAN JERK CHICKEN

  1/4 cup Inner Beauty, or other Caribbean hot sauce, or 10 pureed Scotch
          Bonnet chile pepper, or 15 of your favorite fresh chile peppers
  2 tbsp dried rosemary
  2 tbsp parsley, chopped
  2 tbsp dried basil
  2 tbsp dried thyme
  2 tbsp mustard seeds
  3 scallions, finely chopped
  1 tsp salt
  1 tsp black pepper
  juice of 2 limes
  1/4 cup cheap yellow mustard
  2 tbsp orange juice
  2 tbsp white vinegar
  6 chicken thighs, with legs attached

Combine all the rub ingredients in a food processor, or blender, and
blend them into a paste, making sure that all the ingredients are fully
integrated.  The paste should be approximately the consistency of a thick
tomato sauce.  If it is too thick, thin it out with a little more white
viegar.  Cover the paste and let it sit n the refrigerator for at least 2
hours for the flavors to blend together.  Overnight is the ideal amount
of time to give them to get acquainted. (**NOTE** If you want to avoid
making a fresh batch every time you make this dish, you can multiply the
amount of paste easily.  Don't worry about it going bad, since it keeps
almost infinetely.)

Rub the chicken thighs with paste and place them on the grill over very
low heat.  If you have a covered cooker, put the coals to one side and
the chicken on the other, and cover.

Cook about 1 hour without a cover or 1/2 hour if covered.  The key here
is to use a very low heat.  You need to be patient and give yourself
plenty of time.  The chicken is technically done when the meat is opaque
and the juices run clear.  However, the ideal is about 10-15 minutes past
that point, when the meat pulls away from the bone easily.  It is very
hard to overcook this.  In fact you can only screw it up if you burn the
paste by having the heat too high.  The longer the chicken stays on the
grill, the more superior the smoky flavor.  After cooking, separate the
leg from the thigh by cutting at the natural joint between them.  Serve
one leg or thigh per person accompanied by a few spoonfuls of
Banana-guava ketchup.

Serves 4 and as entree or 6 as a light meal.

Origin:  Cookbook Digest magazine,  July/Aug 1991

    Origin: PSICHOTIC CIRCUS, 101 Ways to Wok you dog. (1:359/600)


  -------------------------------------------
  Title: JAMAICAN JERK SAUCE

  1/2 cup Ground Allspice
  1/2+ cup Brown Sugar
  6 - 8 Garlic cloves
  4 - 6 Scotch Bonnet Peppers (or equivalent) seeds and all
  1 TB ground Thyme, or 2 TB thyme leaves
  2 bunches Scallions
  1 tsp Cinnamon
  1/2 tsp Nutmeg
  Soy sauce to moisten (2 TBS)

Put everything in a food processor and blend until smooth. You may
 use allspice berries, if available, but use enough to give the
 equivalent of 1/2 cup ground. This will keep "forever" in the
 refrigerator. Feel free to increase the garlic, and the hot peppers.
 I do. The recipe, double, and triples very well.

Rub about 1/4 cup sauce into each chicken, halved, and get under the
 skin and in all the cavities. It is is pork, use a de-boned
 shoulder, score the fat, and rub the sauce in, using 1/2 cup, or
 more, per 6 lb shoulder. Use less for fish.

Marinate, preferably overnight, and grill over a low fire, until
 done. Charcoal is ideal. The meat will be a smoky pink when done,
 and the skin nice and dark. Chop the meat into pieces, and serve
 traditionally with a hard-dough bread, and LOTS of Red Stripe Beer!

Christine

    Origin: The Guild Miami,FL (305) 751-0993 (1:135/315)


  Randy Farkas Jerked Chicken

Number of Servings:   4


       1        ea    chicken - 1 lb - washed and quartered
       1/2      tsp   seasoned salt
       1/2      tsp   garlic powder
       1/2      tsp   black pepper
       1/2      tsp   crushed chili peppers
       2        tsp   soy sauce, dark
                      SAUCE:
       1/2      cup   breadcrumbs - dry
       1/2      tsp   seasoned salt
       1/2      tsp   thyme
       1        ea    onion - large
       1/2      tsp   pimento seed (allspice berries)
       2        ea    garlic cloves
       1        cup   water


Mix seasonings and soy sauce and rub over the chicken pieces. Cover and
refrigerate overnight to marinate.  The next day, bake marinated chicken in
350F
oven for 1-1/2 hours.  Meanwhile, make the sauce by blending all ingredients in
blender or food processor until smooth.  When chicken has cooked for 1-1/2
hours, remove from the oven and dip each piece in blended sauce mixture.
Return
chicken to oven and bake an additional 15 minutes.  Meanwhile, boil remaining
sauce for 15 to 20 minutes, or until thickened. Serve hot sauce with the
chicken.

Serves 4.

From Lloyd's Caribbean Bakery, Calgary, Alberta
Appeared in Calgary Sun, Monday, June 4, 1990

    Origin: GENERATIONS BBS of Calgary, Alberta (403) 251-5540 (1:134/8.0)

-----------------------------------------------------------

My favorite (and easy) jerky recipe is:

1 part liquid smoke
2 parts worchestershire sauce
4 parts soy sauce
black pepper to taste

trim favorite meat and slice 1/4' thick marinate overnight and dry.  I have a
dehydrator, but the Joy of Cooking says you can dry jerky in the oven by
setting in to 170 degrees and hanging the strips from the racks.  I haven't
tried this.  I assume you need to prop the door open to release the moisture.


--------------------------------------------

Atlast, the long awaited continuation to the jerky summary.  It seems
that a few people couldn't wait for the rest of the recepies (sp?) and
got a bit...over-anxious...so...here's the rest of what i have...again,
many thanks to Bob  for sending 'em to me...

Curried Jerky
1 tsp salt               1-1/2 tsp curry powder
1/4 tsp pepper           1/2 tsp garlic powder
1/8 tsp cinnamon         1 tsp ground ginger
1/16 tsp ground cloves   1/8 tsp ground cumin

Frontier Jerky
1 tsp salt               2 tbs liquid smoke
1/4 tsp pepper           1 tsp garlic powder
2 tbs Worcestershire sauce

Great Jerky
3/4 tsp salt              2 tbs soy sauce
1/4 tsp cracked pepper    1 tbs Worcestershire sauce
1 tbs brown sugar         1 clove crushed garlic

Teriyaki Jerky
1/2 tsp salt              1/4 cup soy sauce
1/8 tsp pepper            1/2 tsp ground ginger
2 tbs brown sugar

and finally....Bob's Own Beef Jerky
I haven't tried this one yet, but i think i will when i have the
time to go hunting around for more spices...

Bob's Beef Jerky

4 tbs soy sauce          4 tbs Worcestershire sauce
4 tbs teriyaki sauce     1/2 tsp liquid smoke
1 tbs corriander         1/4 tsp garlic powder
1/4 tsp pepper
1 tbs ketchup (he uses hot ketchup)

He suggests playing around with it.  Adding more pepper or garlic.
Maybe a bit of red wine.  Or anything else that sounds good.

Anyway....that's it...so far I've been pretty happy with things so
far.  And the dried fruit is great too...the fresh stuff works best.
Much better than processed stuff from a can.

Anyway...have fun...I did.

From: ralf@cs.uq.oz.au (Ralf Muhlberger)
Newsgroups: rec.crafts.brewing
Subject: Re: Wanted: Mead recipes [long]
Message-ID: <12227@uqcspe.cs.uq.oz.au>
Date: 1 Mar 93 21:20:39 GMT
Lines: 844

STOKKE@NDSUVM1.BITNET writes:

>Some friends recently invited us to their annual wild game feed, and during
>the meal, the conversation eventually wound its way around to our recent
>exploits into the area of home brewing.  In response to our boasting, we have
>been asked to provide beverages suitable to the vension and wild fowl menu
>for next years feast.  After careful consideratin, it was determined that
>a flagon of mead would be the natural choice.  We are therefore searching
>for a recipe or the location to purchase the appropiate materials to make
>this beverage.  If anyone has a recipe, or any other info they think we might
>need, we would love to see it posted or e-mailed to stokke@vm1.nodak.edu.
>Thanks for the help.

>Sincerely,

>Moose and Rocko ( aka Brian Runge and Tom Stokke )

I recently sent the same request to the recipes newsgroup, and received
several replies, which I'll post at the end here. My thanks again to
everyone who mailed me with recipes. I'll start brewing soon :-)

Ralf
-------------------------------- cut here --------------------------------


Date: Wed, 21 Sep 88 02:23:45 mdt
Subject:  Mead Recipes -- AT LAST!
Original-From: <mhalley%MUN.BITNET@CORNELLC.CCS.CORNELL.EDU>

Ye Olde Batte's PROVEN Recipes

Basic Metheglyn

(Took First Prize at Homebrewers Competition) Put three pounds (1 quart) light
honey to about a gallon of water and heat to just below boiling.  Skim off as
much as you can of the white froth & discard.  Add a palmful of whole cloves,
a handful of stick cinnamon, and a couple of palmfuls of whole allspice.  Add
the zest (thin outer peel) of one medium-large orange.  Remove and discard the
white pith from the orange and crush the remainder into the pot.  Add one cup
double-strength black tea (two teabags to one cup boiling water).  Keep the
whole mess at steaming (NOT BOILING) temperature for two to five hours.  Cool
to lukewarm ("baby-bottle" or "blood" temperature) and strain or rack (siphon)
into one or two large bottles, filling only to the "shoulder" of each bottle.
Add one or two tablespoonfuls of dry yeast to each bottle and attach airlock.
(Mead is the ONLY fermented product it is not only safe, but often preferable
to use bread yeast to manufacture).  You may want to leave the bottles
"unlocked" for 12-24 hours to give the yeasty-beasties a headstart.  Leave in
warm, but not hot, place for 7-21 days, or until airlock "breaks."  Rack into
clean bottles.  You may top up with clean water, if you wish.  This lightens
the flavour and assists in the mellowing process.  DON'T use processed city
water!  Age in cool spot for AT LEAST six weeks -- it can safely go for a
year.  Rack once more when it looks clear, and be sure always to leave all the
GUCK in the bottom of the bottle whenever you rack.  ENJOY IN MODERATION --
NOTHING is as bad as a mead hangover!

Wylde-Rose-Petal Metheglyn

Use basic recipe as above, but reduce cloves to 5 or 6 large -- count 'em --
and add one whole nutmeg, split in half, and one or two one-pint ziploc
bagfuls of fresh (or frozen) rose petals.  Wild roses are the best for this,
as they are more fragrant; the red or pink have more flavour than the white.
When you pick, go for the newly opened or just opening flowers; take ONLY the
petals; pack 'em as tightly in the bags as you can.  They store well in the
freezer until use (but not overlong).  This recipe makes a smaller volume of
product than the basic, but the bouquet and flavour are unique and delightful
and the colour is GORGEOUS!

Melomel/Cyser

Use basic recipe, but eliminate allspice, scant other spices, add a nodule of
fresh ginger root, peeled and cut in pieces; omit the tea; use a tad more
yeast; and REPLACE THE WATER WITH FRUIT OR BERRY JUICE.  It's unusual, but
"Gran' shtuff!"  When apple juice is used, it can be called cyser.  Make sure
juice is fresh and has NO preservatives or "spoilage retardants," 'cause it
won't ferment if it does.  Cyser or pear melomel are FANTASTIC when drunk warm
in the winter.  Glenn & Faith's Rose Petal Wine Pick 4-8 quarts rose petals
(firmly packed) 10 days to two weeks after last spraying and let cold water
run over them for ten minutes to wash off any residual gunk.  Bring two
gallons of water (the GOOD stuff) to a boil, put petals in a crock, and pour
the boiling water over them.  When it has cooled, squeeze the petals
thoroughly by hand to get all the scented liquid out.  Strain the result into
an enamel pot, squeezing out every drop of juice, add 6-8 pounds of sugar,
bring to SLOW boil, and brew for 20 minutes or so.  Pour back into CLEAN
crock, let cool to lukewarm, dissolve 1/2 ounce yeast in 1/2 cup warm water,
and add.  Cover.  (Air-lock should be applied at this point, if you have one.)
Let ferment 14-21 days.  Rack off.  Let stand until clear.  Re-rack and
bottle.  Age for AT LEAST a year.  SERVE COLD!

Rowanberry Wine (I FOUND IT!)

Gather berries when ripe and dry.  Pick clean from stalks and place in large
container (a plastic beer bucket is excellent).  Cover with boiling water and
let stand 4-5 days, muddling occasionally.  (It takes about 2 1/2 lbs.
berries per gallon of water.)  Strain off liquor, measure, and allow one pound
sugar per gallon.  Put sugar in large vessel, pour in liquor, stir until
dissolved, add one ounce crushed fresh ginger root, and leave to ferment 10-12
days (or longer if still actively working).  NB: You may add yeast and/or
nutrient if you're more interested in success than in tradition.  Close
tightly and allow to age 6 months before bottling.  Store in cool, dry place.
NB: Rowan, called "dogberry" in some places, and "rountree" in others, is
actually the European mountain ash.  Native North American mountain ash will
work, but not as well.  The product is fairly astringent, but good, and the
colour is lovely.  Now, who's going to get back to me with the elderblow
recipe??  You have all my secrets that I can send in the mail.

Toast (Spanish):
Bendito sea el arbol
De donde sacaron la madera
De que hicieron el cabo del martillo
Con que clavaron la pila
En que te bautizaron.

>Blessed be the tree
>From which they took the wood
>From which they made the handle of the hammer
>That nailed the nails into the font
>Where you were baptized.

This is to be said in one breath and one's glass must be emptied before one is
allowed to inhale again.

Love yez,
Ye Olde Batte
From: The Cooking of Scandinavia/ Time Life Books (c)1968

SIMA
Lemon-flavored Mead (Finnish)

To make 5 quarts

2 large lemons
1/2 cup granualated sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
5 quarts boiling water
1/8 teaspoon yeast
5 tsp. sugar
15 raisins

With a small, sharp knife or rotary peeler, carefully peel off the yellow
skins of the lemons and set them aside.  Then cut away the white membranes of
the lemons and discard them.  Slice the lemons very thinly.  In a 6 to
8-quart enameled or stainless-steel bowl, combine the lemon slices, lemon
skins and the two sugars.  Pour the boiling water over the fruit and sugar,
stir, and let the mixture cool to tepid.  Then stir in the yeast.  Allow the
Sima to ferment, uncovered at room temperature for about 12 hours.  To
bottle, use 5 one-quart bottles with very tight covers or corks.  Place 2
teaspoon of sugar and 3 raisins in the bottom of each bottle.  Strain the
Sima through a sieve and, using a funnel, pour the liquid into the bottles. 
Close the bottles tightly and let them stand at room temperature for 1 or 2
days until the raisins have risen to the surface.  Chill the sealed bottles
until ready to serve.

I hope this is what you were looking for.

Don Havens
d.havens@dartmouth.edu

Ralf,

Things about Mead.

The less honey, the lighter the drink, and the quicker it can be made.
1 pound of honey per gallon of water is the minimum, 5 pounds per gallon is
the maximum for a sweet dessert wine.  If you add dark berries to the
mead mixture it will tend to mature earlier.  Some say that it takes at least
1 year for a mead to age properly and others say 4-5 years.  I have found
that 6 months to 1 years is a good period.  There are several books out there
that talk about making mead.   I do not recall the exact title but any
local homebrew shop should have them.

If you want more just post on the homebrew group.

Relax have a homebrew.

Kent Reinhard
Space Telescope Science Institute.

Recipe:  Mead - "Same As It Every Was"

3 gallons water
5 pound honey
2 teaspoons yeast nutient
1 ounce hops (Cascades)
1 package yeast (champagne, wine or ale)

In pot boil honey, water, nutients and hops for 30 minutes.  Let cool to
about 100F and then add yeast starter.  I usually find it easier to mix
the yeast with warm water and then pour into the container.  Let mixure sit
for 7 days and then transfer the liquid to another container.  Allow this
to sit for 1-2 months covered and at room tempeture.  Rack to your choice
of containers.

If you are not famiar with the brewing process you should try to pick up
some books on it before you start with.  

Hi Ralf,

--------------------------------------------------------------------
From: ralf@cs.uq.oz.au (Ralf Muhlberger)
Subject: REQUEST: Mead
Date: 23 Feb 93 07:00:27 GMT

Well, that pretty much covers it in the header. Does anyone have a 
recipe to make that medieval delight, mead?

Thanks already, go placidly,

Ralf
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

I am sending you a compilation of recipes from the net on making mead.  I 
think these all came from rec.food.drink.  Good luck!

Toki

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Toki Noguchi                  |Take a pinch of this and a shake of that
HP Santa Rosa, MWTD           |And a splash of something good.   
Archaeologists date anything! |'Cause a cook just knows by the twitch of  
tokin@hpmwmat.HP.COM          |her nose, the way a good cook should.FraggleRock 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Mead Recipes

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From bemo@spacsun.rice.edu Thu Aug  8 16:40:01 1991

     The following is based upon my own experiences in brewing, and information
that I have gleaned from various publications on wine and beer-making.  First, I
will deal with 'long' meads, and then quicker 'short' meads for the impatient
at heart.

     Mead is really not that difficult to make.  I am hardly a wizened master
(having only 6 gallons of production under my belt, so to speak), but I will
venture to state that anyone patient and clean enough by nature can make quite
a nice brew at home.
    First, let me say that it is much easier to do if you have a homebrew supply
store in town.  It is possible to get everything you need mail order, but
nothing tops the convenience and inspirational value of actually browsing in a
store.  All that you would need to get from there is the yeast and airlocks;
anything else could be found or substituted from other sources.
     So let's get to basics.  Get lots of honey, preferably clover honey
(try your local 'health food' store; mine has bulk honey for 1.19/lb., although
it is not clover).  Use from 2-4 pounds per U.S. gallon of water, depending on
your desired sweetness and alcohol level.  3 pounds should get you a slightly
sweet white wine-ish mead.
     Boil the honey in the water, skimming off the grayish-brown foam which
will form on top, until the foam is no longer formed at a rapid rate (I usually
wait until it takes about 2 minutes to form enough foam to skim effectively.)
     Now you need to add some fruit; for 2 gallons, I usually add a lime and an
orange, with about 1 oz. of ginger to boot.  You can use any citrus you like,
in almost any amount you like.  The purpose of this, besides taste, is to
balance the wine; it also prevents oxidation later on.  Cut it up, throw it in,
but remember to minimize the amount of white pith that goes into the pot, as
it adds an unpleasantly bitter taste to the wine.  I usually grate some peel
into the pot, then squeeze in the juice, with some pulp thrown in as well.
Peel the ginger, cut it up, throw it in; grating will utilize more of the
ginger, but makes it harder to strain out.  Also, nothing beats the zingy taste
of ginger boiled in honey water!  What the hell, eat the fruit too, it's good 
for you.
     OK, so you have some hot pre-mead, now what?  Let it cool, preferably
covered, until you can handle it reasonably well.  Now you need a narrow-necked
container, preferably glass.  I use 1-gallon apple juice jugs.  There are also
large plastic tubs, with a tight-fitting lid that has a small hole drilled in it
for the airlock, which works equally as well.  These are available at homebrew
shops as well, and are especially helpful for those big batches.
   The key to preventing any unwanted contamination of your mead is cleanliness.
Clean and sterilize your container, with either sodium metabisulphite (also at
HBrew shops) or with a bleach solution (no more than two tablespoons per gallon
of water).  Chlorine bleach will kill the nasty organisms, but requires a lot of
hot water rinses of the container afterwards.  Sodium metabisulfites are the
sulfites in commercial wines, but they only inhibit growth, and can also cause
allergic reactions.  So if you can't drink commercial wines without a reaction
(except, of course, that pleasant drunk feeling), go with the bleach.  One could
also attempt to use heat to sterilize the equipment (say, the heat-dry cycle of 
a dishwasher), but personally I do not recommend this,as it canhave a disastrous
effect on the glass (and anything in range if it breaks apart).
    Once it is sterilized and well-rinsed, fill your container with cooled mead.
Try to strain it as you fill; bits of fruit pulp and peel should not be allowed
to remain while fermenting, as it may start to decay and spoil all your effort.
Cover and alloe to cool to room temperature.  Meanwhile, prepare your airlock,
sterilizing it as you did the container.  Fill it halfway with either water or
sulfite solution at the appropriate strength (check the package), and definitely
NOT with bleach solution.  Removing the airlock or pressure changes may suck
some of the solution into the mead, and the bleach would make it undrinkable.
Sulfite solution is preferred (since water could be infected by the dreaded
vinegar fly), and it won't poison the product.
     When the mead is fully cooled, you can now add the yeast.  It is considered
best to take a little of the mead in a beer bottle, add the yeast packet, and
let it start off to the side before adding it to the entire batch; this becomes
really necessary if your batch is in several jugs, instead of just one.  Also,
it is very important to use a yeast nutrient, which should be right next to the
yeast when you buy it.  You will need about 1 teaspoon per gallon, since honey
is extremely deficient in the chemicals necessary for yeast to reproduce.
     The choice of yeast could be important; most meadmakers steer clear of ale
yeasts, since they have a low alcohol tolerance (9%?)  and reportedly impart
an unwanted flavor to the mead.  I myself have used ale yeasts, with no
undesirable effects. Preferably, one should use a mead yeast, but if not, a wine
or Champagne yeast work just as well.
     Now you just add the yeast and nutrient, and fit the airlock over the mouth
of your container (a variety of sizes of rubber stoppers are available, so don't
be concerned with whether ornot your bottle is the 'right' size for the airlock.
Be sure to test your stopper first, to see if it will hold the seal).  Put it
in a corner somewhere, and watch it go.
     I have had experiences where the fermentation was so violent that mead foam
was forced through the airlock. It is not that large of a concern; just clean it
up every once in a while,fill the airlock again(see why you don't want bleach!),
and reseal the container.This is another reason to strain the mixture; you don't
want to block the airlock, or your meadmaking could soon become an experiment in
bomb making!  Check on it ever once in a while, to make sure the carbon dioxide
is escaping.  It will soon calm down, and the soft, steady bloop sounds which
brewers all cherish from their airlocks will soon sing you to sleep.
     The hardest part is now upon us -- waiting.  Mead takes excrutiatingly long
to ferment, since the sugars in it are so complex.  This is when it is handy to
have a hydrometer, which is just a cheap device to measure the specific gravity
(and hence the sugar content) of your brew.  If you have one, read the enclosed
instructions;if not, don't worry about it. You will just have to be more patient
and observant is all.  Watch your mead; a layer of yeast will fall to the bottom
of your container (so clear glass is preferable). When the layer is substantial,
you will want to siphon the mead into another container, so that the dead yeast
there will not break down and spoil the mead. This will take on the order of two
to three months, and then again in another two to three months.  After these two
transfers (called 'racking'), the mead should be 'clear'; if it is cloudy, the
yeast haven't finished yet, so let it sit some more.  If the mead is clear but
bubbles are still visible, the yeast haven't finished yet.  If no deposit forms,
it is clear, and no bubbles are visible, then the yeast are probably through,
and you can bottle.
     Sterilize the bottles that you plan to use as you did the other equipment.
Since mead sometimes fools you into believing it is done, Champagne bottles are
preferable.  If any bottle fermentation does take place, you do not want it in
regular bottles, or without the cork wired down.  If you wish, regular bottles
can be used, but be sure to use a wine stabilizer,and only after fermentation is
complete. Until you are experienced, better safe than sorry (and messy).  Siphon
your mead into the bottles and cork.  Plastic corks are just fine to use, and
are reusable.  Cages are also reusable, to a point, if you have trouble getting
new ones.  If you've done it all right, no sediment should form, and you should
have a fine still mead.  If not, bottle fermentation has taken place, you have a
little sediment around the punt of your Champagne bottle, and you have fine
sparkling mead (or else you've cleaned up your winerack, if you used a regular
bottle).  Age as long as you can stand, up to two years, but open one fairly
early, as reward and to check for bottle fermentation.
     To intentionally make sparkling mead, you need to have made a low-alcohol
batch (I'd say <= 2.5 lb/gallon), and you really should buy a hydrometer to tell
you when it is finished.  In this case you must use a high-alcohol wine yeast;
ale yeast will not work.  When it is, remove a small portion of mead, boil it,
and add some sugar to the boiling mead, cover and cool, and add back to the
batch.  I do not have the reference that I want nearby, but for beer the amount
is 4 oz. per gallon, so that should be about right.  Less is OK, more is not
recommended.  Then bottle in Champagne bottles (or beer bottles -- Grolsch
bottles are very good for this, and replacement seals are available). Wait a few
weeks (longer if honey was used), chill, and pour the mead carefully off of the
sediment (you Chimay ale drinkers know what I mean).  This is why you may want
to use less sugar in the bottle than 4 oz; the bubbles released when opening can
force the sediment off of the bottom of the bottle and into your glass, so fizzy
mead becomes fizzy yeasty mead, which can be comestibly and gastrically
unpleasant.
    Once you have a few batches under your belt, you can add fruit, hops, more
ginger, whatever you think would taste good. Amounts are generally a pound or so
of fruit, an ounce or so of hops, per gallon.  Experimentation, though sometimes
yielding unfortunate results, is the key to getting what you want.  However, if
fruit is to be used, do not boil it (it may jellify), and if you can, sterilize
it with sulfites and add pectic enzyme to the brew.  Crush it, add it, and make
sure that it does not clog the airlock.If you use hops, I suggest a mild variety
like Fuggles or Cascade.  More bitter hops could be used, but I would relegate
them only to the quick sparkling meads,where the beer quality is more pronounced
and less invasive than in wines.

     Now that you have made a long mead, you'll need to make a quick mead to
drink while you wait. Use about 2-2.5 lbs of honey per gallon; any more, and the
yeast may take to long, depriving you of the relatively quick satisfaction you
seek.  Also, I suggest using an ale yeast, despite all convention.  After all,
you are essentially making honey beer here, not wine, which by its very nature
needs to be delicate and well-aged.  Do that mead thing just like before.  Allow
vigorous fermentation to run its course.  In ten to twenty days, the mead should
have settled down.  Ale yeast is a top-fermenting yeast, so it works best in a
warm environment.  Because we want to arrest fermentation, we need to cool it.
Find a place in your fridge where the bottle can stand up with the airlock init,
and stick it there.  The yeast will slow down and sink, and thus the mead will
start to clear.  When it is clear, bottle in either beer or Champagne bottles,
and leave it out for a day or two if you want it carbonated, then refrigerate.
If you wish, wait a little longer, then transfer it instead into a plastic
thermos, and drink it quickly.  If it's too yeasty, next time wait longer.
Wait a week for the sediment to form, then drink.  Do not wait too long; bottle
fermentation will soon make the mead gush out of the bottle when opened, mixing
the yeast back in the mead.  If this starts to occur, you must rebottle or face
the consequences.  The longer you can wait until bottling, the more unlikely
that you end up with little mead time bombs in your fridge.  This is the other
reason for using ale yeast; its low alcohol tolerance will end fermentation
earlier than wine yeast, lowering the danger limit to your bottles (and you).
As anecdotal evidence, I relate the story of my ginger beer, which when opened,
put a plastic Champagne cork imprint on my ceiling, followed by the entire
contents of the bottle, which then proceeded to ginger-bathe my entire kitchen.
(By the way, the kitchen smelled great).  I then had to go in the back yard and
defuse the remaining four bottles, hitting the back fence three out of four
shots.  Sparkling mead demands respect, and usually gets it from whomever it
wishes.  Aged sparkling mead is sparkling mead with an attitude.  Really old
sparkling mead doesn't kill people, people kill people.  I know people who
would rather rip their own heads off than open a bottle of really old sparkling
mead.
    After several batches of quick mead, it will become apparent what variations
to try, and which of these you wish to try with your long meads.  Once again, I
stress the virtues of experimentation, especially with these quick meads, in
which you have invested a lot less waiting and bother, and hence won't be so
disappointed if something goes awry.  The best laid plans o' mice and mead...

     While this discussion is by no means a definitive guide on meads, I feel
that it should clear up some misconceptions on the subject, some of which have
been propogated through folios and articles within the SCA itself, including the
first Knowne World Handbooke, which I feel really shows it age in this topic.
The technology and literature on the subject of homebrewing has increased
severalfold since its penning, and it would be folly to discount it only on
the basis of period accuracy and perceived complexity.  Become the life of the
barony, and earn the respect of your heavy fighters.  Kiss up to the king,
and bring your wares to the war.  Everybody loves a brewer!

                                                 Voue'

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Brian D. Moore (Voue' Alechec)|  Homebrewing -- the only sport open exclusively
Space Physics and Astronomy   |                 to anal-retentive alcoholics.
Rice University, Houston TX   |  Relax -- have a home brew.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From gary@cdthq Tue Jun 19 21:18:14 1990

boutell@freezer.it.udel.edu (Tom Boutell) writes:
> Can anyone provide me with a recipe for mead? I'm curious about the
> possibilities. Thanks!


Sure. From "First Steps in Winemaking", by Charles J. J. Berry:

Ingredients:
4 lb honey      1 orange        1 lemon         1 nutrient tablet
pectic enzyme   yeast           1 gallon water

(Makes one gallon)

Put the honey in the water and bring to a boil. (I understand that
many people disagree, and only bring it to about 165F.) Pour into
your primary fermentation vessel and allow to cool. Add the juice
from the lemon and orange, yeast, and nutrient. Fit an airlock
and allow to ferment to completion--this is liable to take much 
longer than most country wines (as he calls them)--and rack when
no further bubbles are passing thru the airlock. (If you can
stand to...) mead should be matured for a year.

I've made three batches of mead, using this basic recipe. For your
primary fermentation, go straight into a carboy. One batch of mine
was so vigorous it bubbled out thru the airlock, something I've
only had happen one other time. I experimented with more honey
in my second batch, and results were not good; oversweet. If you
know a beekeeper, you need about 1 gallon of honey to make 5 gallons
of mead. It's possible to substitute a tablespoon or so of citric
acid for the lemon and orange juice, or use frozen concentrate.

The mead I made was popular, and I've another gallon of honey 
ready for the next batch....

Gary Heston, at home....
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


>From gary@cdthq.UUCP Thu Jan 17 18:40:22 1991

euclid@lindy.stanford.edu (Stephanie Moore-Fuller) writes:
> [ Gary mentions that he buys honey to make mead ]
> 
> Would you be willing to post your mead recipe?

Well, it's one of those things that's made in many variations over a
common base, by adding small amounts of spices or flavorings.

Briefly, to make a 5 gallon batch of plain mead, start with one 
gallon of honey (about 10-12lb, I think--my suppliers just use 1 gal
syrup jugs). Pour about a quart into a pot with about a half-gallon
of water, and heat until it's warm enough to pasteurize it (I use 
raw honey from local beekeepers), say about 170F (77C). Some recipies
say boil it, some say don't ever... I've used both, but not closely
enough to pass judgement. The two batches in the kitchen now were
not boiled. I covered the pot and turned off the heat, to let it
sit for a few minutes at temperature. Note that you should be stirring
almost constantly to dissolve the honey, and keep it from scorching
(this is the only real pain about mead making, very simple otherwise).
Allow it to cool to about room temp (I pour it into another pot in the
sink, with cold water running around it. Cover the pot to keep the
mix from being contaminated by airborne dust, yeasts, or bacteria.).
When cool, pour into your primary fermentation vessel (I use a 5 gal
glass carboy), and repeat with all the honey (the objective is to not
end up with not more than 4.5 gallons of the honey-water mixture, you
should add water to this level--but NOT to the 5 gal mark, yet!).
Add 5 winemaking nutrient tablets, or juice from one lemon, and yeast.
Some people use Champagne yeast; some use other wine yeast; strange
people like me use Fleishmanns' Rapid-Rise. Your choice; you'll get
higher attenuation with the Champagne yeast, at $1 or so a pack, the
Rapid-Rise is cheaper, and works OK for me. (To the brewers/vintners
out there: I've been flamed already; it didn't make me change. Don't
bother....:-) )

Put an airlock-and-stopper assembly (about $2.50 total, here) in the
carboy. Fermentation should be noticable within 6-8 hours, and roaring
in 24. It takes about 10 days for primary fermentation to finish (this
is the most vigorous stage), which you can determine by the 1.5-2"
layer of sediment on the bottom and a marked reduction in activity
(one glub per minute thru the airlock, instead of twelve per minute).
I siphon the clear liquid (looks like tea in color, darkness varies
depending upon the honey) into another carboy, add water to the
5 gallon level, install the airlock, and let it proceed thru 
secondary fermentation. This will be at least 2 weeks, and can be
allowed to run for months, if you're not in a hurry. If you get
a lot more sediment, siphon it again (this is called "racking" or
"racking off" in the winemaking world). My secondaries seem to 
throw less than 1/2" of sediment.

When it's done (or you can't wait any longer) add 5 Campden tablets
(75/$2.50) to kill off the last of the yeast (unless you're trying
to make sparkling mead, in which case you should know what you're
doing). Give them a day to work, then bottle. I've started using 
16oz soft drink bottles, since they're cheap and convenient. I start
drinking mine at this point, you may want to age it for a while.

That's basic mead. My current two batches are spiced, with a little
cinnamon and nutmeg (in one, boiled in one batch of mix, in the other
just tossed into the primary), to see how they'll come out. Other
spices can be used to your taste; fruit can be added (cherry and
blueberries that I've heard of, I may try blackberries next time)
and it becomes a melomel instead of just mead. There are at least
as many variations as there are people making it. Smaller batches
are possible, of course; 5 gallons are convenient for me. My sources
want $10 for a gallon of honey; beyond that, nutrients and Campden
tablets add perhaps another $.50 or so, to yield about $2.10/gallon
material cost. It takes me about an hour to start a batch, and
10 minutes or so each time to rack it. You end up with an interesting
beverage, somewhat stronger than beer, at about $.20/12oz serving.

Normal brewing/vintning sanitary proceedures apply, of course,
but that's another message about this size that you can read in
any wine/beer making book. 

If anyone has any specific questions, I'll be glad to help--I've
found this to be an interesting hobby, producing something I can
use :-) without requiring large investments in equipment (if you
find carboys at flea markets, you can get started for as little
as $20, depending on their cost), huge amounts of space (I do this
in my kitchen, which isn't very large), or lots of effort.

Enjoy!

Gary Heston, at home....
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From klier@iscsvax.uni.edu Sat Aug 22 20:49:07 1992

Don't know about authenticity, but here's one from my undergraduate
microbiology lab manual-- the mead was well received by class members,
in contrast to the wine and beer we made...

1/4 orange
1/4 lemon
1/2 lb honey
nutrient solution*
1 500 ml flask with air trap to fit flask**
Yeast starter culture: Maury yeast or all-purpose wine yeast
1 hydrometer

Add honey to 250 ml water and bring the solution to a boil, stirring
constantly to prevent carmelization.  Allow the solution to cool, adding
juice from orange and lemon quarters, then yeast and nutrient solution.
Adjust specific gravity of solution to 1.093 (12-13% potential alcohol).
Place solution in flask and add air lock.  Ferment until no more CO2
is evolved.  Rack mead into another container when completed.


*nutrient solution: 4 gm (NH4)2SO4 + 0.5 gm MgSO4 + 2 g KH2PO4 dissolved
in minimal water.  Use the entire quantity for 1000 ml mead; use proper
proportion for other amounts. 

**the air trap is just a rubber stopper with a piece of plastic or
glass tubing bent down to fit into a container of water.

From: DP Durand, PA Patee, FD Williams & PA Hartman.  1973.  MELE.
         Iowa State University, Ames, IA.
Kay Klier    Biology Dept  UNI
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From jtn@nutter.cs.vt.edu Tue Sep  1 08:35:52 1992

A couple of people emailed me requests for the recipe I use for light 
meads, so I thought it might be worth posting.  Actually, it's not mine, 
it's Kenelm Digby's; but his copyright expired a while back...  ;^}.

And here it is:

Take nine pints of warm fountain water, and dissolve in it one pint of
pure White-honey, by laving it therein, till it be dissolved.  Then boil
it gently, skimming if all the while, till all the scum be perfectly
scummed off; and after that boil it a little longer, peradventure a 
quarter of an hour.  In all it will require two or three hours boiling,
so that at last one third part may be consumed.  About a quarter of an
hour before you cease boiling, and take it from the fire, put to it a
little spoonful of cleansed and sliced Ginger; and almost half as much 
of the thin yellow rind of Orange, when you are even ready to take it from 
the fire, so as the Orange boil only once warm in it.  Then pour it into
a well-glassed strong deep great Gally-pot, and let it stand so, till it
be almost cold, that it be scarce Luke-warm.  Then put to it a little
silver-spoonful of pure Ale-yeast, and work it together with a Ladle to
make it ferment: as soon as it beginneth to do so, cover it close with a
fit cover, and put a thick dubbled woolen cloth about it.  Cast all things
so that this may be done when you are going to bed.  Next morning when you
rise, you will find the barm gathered all together in the middle; scum it 
clean off with a silver-spoon and a feather, and bottle up the Liquor, 
stopping it very close.  It will be ready to drink in two or three days,
but it will keep well a month or two.  It will be from the first very quick
and pleasant.

*****

Notes:

(1) I have gone anywhere from 9/1 water/honey to 11/1, depending on the 
desired strength.

(2) I generally let it go more like 3-4 days than 2-3; at the end of that
time, I refrigerate it.

(3) If you are _really_ thorough in the skimming, you really _don't_ get
any significant scuz in your mead, and it doesn't need any other racking.

(4) Notice that apart from a teaspoon of sliced fresh ginger (_not_ ground
dried) and a few slivers of the outermost peel of orange, there are no
spices or flavorings.  This is a very good mead to use to discover what kinds
of honey and yeast you like best, since there are few confounding flavors.

(5) This stuff was never exposed to oak casks, so there is no need for 
anything to make tannin.

(6) This stuff was simply let set a few days in a big glassed container, then
bottled (using 17th century bottling methods).  You don't need fancy equipment
of any sort.

(7) DON'T USE BREAD YEAST!  -- But I think I've mentioned that.... ;^}

Enjoy!

-- Terry Nutter     Blacksburg, VA     jtn@vtopus.cs.vt.edu     (703)552-1598
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From schuldy@progress.COM Mon Aug 24 06:14:25 1992

rec.brewing will have many more than these, but let me try to stick
to the historic angle.

Digby's recipe book, gives a number of historical mead, metheglin (spiced
mead and honey) and melomel (fruit juice and honey) recipes.  If you read
all of them, you can even find a certain amount of technique.  The major
difference between making mead then, and now, is our knowledge of cleanliness,
yeast culture, and a burning desire for consistency that we can satisfy.

Given my own peculiar combination of desires (I am a member of the Society
for Creative Anachronism), I am willing to use modern notions of cleanliness,
but not modern ingredients nor techniques.  Since mead is nothing but
honey and water, and was usually aged in oak barrels, here is a cobbled
together recipe that will work reasonably well.

approx 3 pounds of honey (aka 1 quart) (from Digby)
1 gallon of water
1 Tablespoon of Oak Bark (my idea of how to fake oak aging.)
  (My local health food store sells it in bulk, as White Oak Bark.)
Yeast (I always use champagne yeast)

tools:
  Large pot, wooden or plastic spoon, cheese cloth, funnel, bottles,
  siphoning tube, some method of capping bottles (corks, champagne corks,
  or bottle caps and a capper), string. Labels for the bottles, fermenting
  container (I use one gallon cranberry juice bottles.)  Cork and fermention
  lock.

The rest is technique.  Wrap the oak bark in cheesecloth, and tie it shut.
Put one gallon of water in a pot.  Stainless steel or enamel or glass.
Aluminum is not historical, and taints the flavor.  Cast Iron is historical,
and ruins the flavor (:-).  Use an inert spoon to stir with, too. I
use wood. Throw in the oak bark.

Digby suggests that you use the following method.  Measure the level of
the water with your spoon.  Add the honey, and boil until the level returns
to one gallon.  I like this technique, and always use it.  However, I add
the honey after the water is hot or boiling, since it mixes better.

For the new brewer, don't just dump in the honey, since it will sink to
the bottom of the pot, and burn.  Mix it in well.  I use very high quality
honey, that costs a fortune.  The brewer in my area with a better reputation
uses generic store brand.  (Hi Michael) Use what makes you happy. (:-)

As you wait for the water to return to the lower level, skim off all foam
and gunk, and throw it away.  The more of this bitter gunk you chuck, the
better the mead will taste.  Some folks swear to never let your honey-water
mixture boil, others always do.  Pick your method.

When done, throw away the oak bark, and let the liquid (must) cool.  Put
it in a sterile one gallon container. I sterilize with Bee Brite (an
oxygenating bleach).  You can also use a super-weak bleach solution. In
either case, rinse very well.  When the liquid is cool enough that you can
leave your hand in contact with the outside of the container it is in,
pour it (through a sterilized funnel) into the container.  Add yeast.

I use champagne yeast.  It seems to be more robust in the face of missing
nutrients than other yeasts, produces more quickly, and has a nice flavor
and a high alcohol content.  I have used other yeasts, and never had
problems (although actual mead yeast can take a week or more to start up).

Put a sterile fermentation lock on the container, and wait.  Bottle when
the bubbling slows to one every 5 seconds or so.  Using a hydrometer to
measure the alcohol content is very useful, but I never have (neither did
Digby).

I rack (siphon the good mead at the top off, leaving nasty dregs behind)
at least once during the fermentation, and usually again when I bottle.
It's just easier to have a bottle with no gluck in the bottom to pour
out of when I bottle.

One gallon makes about 10 beer bottles worth, or a little more than four
champagne bottles worth.  You can spice mead (metheglin) with all sorts
of things.  I've used (in various combinations) oranges, lemons, rosemary,
lovage, nutmeg, mace, cloves, ginger, peppermint, cinnamon, and other
assorted things. I've tasted rose mead, and it's very nice.  We can talk
about other things when I have a bit more time...

Advise, or comments from other brewers, cooks or would-be brewers and cooks
are strongly encouraged.  Hints on fruit meads are nice too.  I've got
a handout on fruit meads on line, and would post it at the slightest
provocation.  I've recently made a terrible peach mead, and would love
to find out if it was the peaches or me, for example.  (One batch doesn't
prove much).

	Mark Schuldenfrei (In the SCA, Tibor)
--
Mark Schuldenfrei (schuldy@progress.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From schuldy@progress.COM Tue Aug 25 06:03:24 1992

Julie Kangas asked me to post my fruit mead recipe.  Here it is.
I feel a little guilty, since it is mostly a technique born of
necessity, rather than research.  I don't do anything that couldn't
have been done historically, but that in no way proves that it *was*
done that way.  This has worked for me with both raspberries (which
was awsome), and strawberries (good, but I would have liked it better
if I bottled it sooner).

-------------
This recipe does not bother to teach basic mead-making technique.

This recipe produces a fine, clean fruit flavored mead, with a good
sweetness, and minimal interference.  It can be drunk within one week
of bottling, and does not keep more than 3 months.

  2 quarts of water
  3 lbs Honey
  1 Tbs White Oak Bark
  1 package Champagne Yeast.
  3 cups of clean fruit (ie 3 half pints of raspberries)

  Cheesecloth for spice bag and straining
  String for tieing spice bag.

Boil 2 quarts of water, with the oak bark in a spice bag.

While the water and spices reach the boiling point, clean the fruit,
slice it, and crush it with a fork. Save all the juice. Make sure the
fruit can fit through the neck of the funnel you will be using.

Add the honey when the water is boiling, and skim and reduce to original
2 quart level. Once the must is finished, turn off the heat, remove the
spice bag, add the fruit, and cover.  Let the temperature reduce to 150
degrees (takes about 45 minutes in my enamel and steel pot).  Add the
whole thing to your primary fermenter.

Do not top off with water! The carbonation will force the fruit to the
top of the fermenter.  If there is no room for the fruit to float out
of the must, it will plug the fermentation lock, and spill onto the
counter.

Leave the fruit in for about a week, or until the fermentation slows
substantially.  Boil some fresh water, and let it cool until it can
be added to the yeast without killing it.  Transfer the must to a
secondary fermenter, straining through a doubled cheesecloth to
catch the fruit.  I like to squeeze the leftover juice from the
fruit, too.  Top off with the cooled clean water to a normal level.

I rack it twice more. The first time I rack, I added more water. Let
it run until still, and then rack again.  Bottle into about 12 beer
bottles or 8 Grolsch bottles.  Serve cold after 1 week.

If you want a fizzy mead, as I did, you need to be aware that there are
two basic reasons why mead stops bubbling.  Mead stops fermenting when the
sugar is gone, or the alcohol level has topped out. If you want a
bubbly fruit mead, taste the mead before bottling.  If it is still
sweet but very alcoholic, add a little water before bottling, to
restart fermentation in the bottle.  If the mead is dry, add a little
sugar (No more than 2 teaspoons per gallon) to the entire gallon before
bottling. It all will depend on the sweetness of the fruit. With three
pounds of honey, it is quite possible you will hit both endpoints at
the same time.

	schuldy (Tibor in the SCA)
--
Mark Schuldenfrei (schuldy@progress.com)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From cgallagh@goya.helios.nd.edu Wed Apr  8 14:28:21 1992

You can make a sweet mead or a more dry mead - it's totally up to you.

There are several books which contain recipes for meads which usually turn
out good.  Here is a recipe I got from the net. It should turn out pretty good.


             FireHouse GingerMead
            ----------------------

Makes 5 Gallons.

===========
1/4 tsp		Irish Moss	Clarifying Agent
3/4 cups	Corn Sugar for bottling
1 1/2 lbs	Corn Sugar
7 1/2 lbs		Wildflower Honey
2 tsp		Gypsum (CaSO4 - Calcium Sulphate)
1/2 tsp		Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C Crystals) to prevent oxydation
4 oz		Freshly-grated supermarket ginger root
3 tsp		Yeast Nutrient
1 pkg		Champagne Yeast (redstar)
1 tsp		Liqued Smoke

Add everything except Yeast Nutrient & Yeast to water in Brew kettle to make
4 Gal.  Bring to boil and boil for 15 minutes, skimming off albumin proteins
as they form on the surface.  Cool and sparge (strain) to 5 gal. carboy. Sparge
with hot water (sparge through strainer filled with used ginger) to make 5 gals.
Add Yeast Nutrient and Yeast to carboy.
Add 3/4 cups corn sugar during bottling.



		Producer.........Christopher Gallagher
                Director.........Christopher Gallagher
                Stunts...........Christopher Gallagher
                Best Boy.........Christopher Gallagher
                Gaffer...........Christopher Gallagher
                Key Grip.........Christopher Gallagher
                Makeup...........Christopher Gallagher

                        Cooking with Pot

     Many people after cleaning their grass throw away the seeds,
stems, and twigs.  I would highly recommend that you save these, as
there are many recipes for these odds and ends.  A tasty hot drink
that resembles tea can be made very simply by tying up all the
waste from your stash into a muslin ball or a piece of cheesecloth.

Use the quantity you have on hand, as the quantity will determine
the strength and potency. Now, drop the cheesecloth containing the
grass into a kettle of water, and bring the water to a boil.  Allow
the kettle to boil for a few minutes, and then remove it from the
flame and let it steep for another five minutes with the grass
still inside.  After this, the drink is ready.  Just add sugar and
lemon to taste.
     If you decide against growing pot, and want to eat your seeds,
there is an interesting recipe for "seed pancakes".  It is prepared
by lightly toasting a quarter cup of seeds in a large frying pan. 
Now, take the seeds from the frying pan and add them to a mixture
of one cup of pancake mix, one egg, a quarter cup of milk, and one
tablespoon of butter.  Beat this mixture until it is smooth and
creamy.  Heat a frying pan with a small amount of butter, then pour
in pancake batter.  Turn the pancakes as they start to look done,
or when the edges begin to turn brown.  Repeat procedure until all
batter is used.  Serve pancakes with butter, maple syrup, and
honey.
     For a stimulating drink (sounds like all the rest of the
cookbooks) place eight ounces milk, a few spoonfuls of sugar, a
tablespoon of malted milk, half a banana, and half a tablespoon
grass, and three betel muts in a blender.  Keep the blender working
full speed for a few minutes, then strain and serve.
     If you like candy, it's very simple to make some using pot. 
Take a quarter cup of powdered grass and add water until it equals
a full cup.  Mix this with four cups sugar and two and a half cups
corn syrup.  Now heat in a large pot to 310 degrees, and add red
food coloring and mint flavoring.  Remove the pot from the stove,
and allow the mixture to cool a little, before pouring it onto wax
paper.  When the candy's cool, cut it into squares and eat.
     One of the most common recipes for cooking with pot is
spaghetti.  This recipe doesn't take too much special preparation:
Just when you add your oregane, add at the same time a quarter cup
grass, and allow it to simmer with the sauce.  Be sure to use well
cleaned grass, unless you can get into eating twigs and stems. 
Another way of serving pot with spaghetti is to grind it up very
fine and mix it with some ground cheese.  Then sprinkle the cheese-
pot mixture over the sauce just before eating.
     Dessert is probably the most important stage of the meal,
since it will be the last thing your guests remember before they
pass out all over your table.  For an interesting dessert, grind a
quarter ounce of grass very finely, and add enough water so it
forms a paste.  Now separately dissolve one and a half cups sugar
into two cups milk.  Add to this your pot paste and one lemon rind
grated.  Beat in a half cup heavy cream, until the mixture is firm
and thick.  Now pour the mixture into ice cube trays and freeze. 
Just before you're ready to serve, rebeat the frozen mush until it
becomes light and fluffy.
     The following are some additional recipes for cooking with
pot:

                         Acapulco Green

3 ripe avocados                    3 tablespoons wine vinegar
1/2 cup chopped onions             2 teaspoons chili powder
1/2 cup chopped grass

Mix the vinegar, grass, and chili powder together and let the
mixture stand for one hour.  Then add avocados and onions and mash
all otgether.  It can be served with tacos or as a dip.

                            Pot Soup

1 can condensed beef broth         1/2 can water
3 tablespoons grass                3 tablespoons chopped watercress
3 tablespoons lemon juice

Combine all ingredients in a saucepan and bring to a boil over
medium heat.  Place in refrigerator for two to three hours, reheat,
and serve.

                     Pork and Beans and Pot

1 can (1lb, 13 oz) can             1/2 cup light molasses
  pork and beans                   1/2 teaspoon hickory salt
1/2 half cup grass                 3 pineapple rings
4 slices bacon

Mix together in a casserole, cover top with pineapple and bacon,
bake at 350 degrees for about 45 minutes.  Serves about six.

                          The Meat Ball

1 lb. hamburger                    1/4 cup bread crumbs
1/4 cup chopped onions             3 tablespoons grass
1 can cream of mushroom soup       3 tablespoons India relish

Mix it all up and shape into meatballs.  Brown in frying pan and
drain.  Place in a casserole with soup and 1/2 cup water, cover and
cook over low heat for about thrity minutes.  Feeds about 4 people.

                         Spaghetti Sauce

1 can (6 oz.) tomato paste         1 can (6 oz.) water
2 tablespoons olive oil            1/2 clove minced garlic
1/2 cup chopped onions             1 bay leaf
1/2 cup chopped grass              1 pinch thyme
1 pinch pepper                     1/2 teaspoon salt

Mix in a large pot, cover and simmer with frequent stirring for two
hours.  Serve over spaghetti.

                            Pot Loaf

1 packet onion soup mix            2 lbs. ground beef
1 (16 oz) can whole peeled         1 egg
  tomatoes                         4 slices bread, crumbed
1/2 cup chopped grass

Mix all ingredients and shape into a loaf.  Bake for one hour in
400-degree oven.  Serves about six.

                         Chili Bean Pot

2 lbs. pinto beans                 1/2 clove garlic
1 lb. bacon, cut into two inch     1 cup chopped grass
  sections                         1/2 cup mushrooms
2 cups read wine                   4 tablespoons chili powder

Soak beans overnight in water.  In a large pot, pour boiling water
over beans and simmer for at least an hour, adding more water to
keep beans covered.  Now add all other ingredients and conitnue to
simmer for another three hours.  Salt to taste.  Serves about ten.

                          Bird Stuffing

5 cups rye bread crumbs            1/3 cup chopped onions
2 tablespoons poultry seasoning    3 tablespoons melted butter
1/2 cup each raisins and almonds   1/2 cup chopped grass
1/2 cup celery                     2 tablespoons red wine

Mix it all together, then stuff it in.

                            Apple Pot

4 apples (cored)                   4 cherries
1/2 cup brown sugar                1/3 cup chopped grass
1/4 cup water                      2 tablespoons cinnamon

Powder the grass in a blender, then mix grass with sugar water. 
Stuff apple cores with this paste.  Sprinkle apples with cinnamon,
and top with a cherry.  Bake for 25 minutes at 350 degrees.

                          Pot Brownies

1/2 cup flour                      1 egg (beaten)
3 tablespoons shortening           1 tablespoon water
2 tablespoons honey                1/2 cup grass
1 pinch salt                       1 square melted chocolate
1/4 teaspoon baking powder         1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup sugar                      1/2 cup chopped nuts
2 tablespoons corn syrup

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together.  Mix shortening,
sugar, honey, syrup and egg.  Then blend in chocolate and other
ingredients, mix well.  Spread in an eight-inch pan and bake for 20
minutes at 350 degrees.  If you are too lazy to cook, just add the
grass to any ready to make brownie mix.

                          Banana Bread

1/2 cup shortening                 1 cup mashed bananas
2 eggs                             2 cups sifted flour
1 teaspoon lemon juice             1/2 cup chopped grass
3 teaspoons baking powder          1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar                        1 cup chopped nuts

Mix the shortening and sugar, beat eggs, and add to mixture. 
Separately mix bananas with lemon juice and add to the first
mixture.  Sift flour, salt, and baking powder together, then mix
all ingredients together.  Bake for 1 1/4 hours at 375 degrees.

                       Sesame Seed Cookies

3 oz. ground roast sesame seeds    1/4 cup honey
3 tablespoons ground almonds       1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg                1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 oz. grass

Toast the grass until slighly brown and then crush it in a mortar. 
Mix crushed grass with all other ingredients, in a skillet.  Place
skillet over low flame and add 1 tablespoon of salt butter.  Allow
it to cook.  When cool, roll mixture into little balls and dip them
into the sesame seeds.

     If you happen to in the country at a place where pot is being
grown, here's one of the greates recipes you can try.  Pick a
medium-sized leaf off the marihuana plant and dip it into a cup of
drawn butter, add salt and eat.

I hope you enjoy these recipes which were taken from The Anarchist
Cookbook, by William Powell and no longer available at finer
bookstores anywhere.

Bon appetit!
Absalom


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X





                      [::::> Marijuana Recipes <::::]



                              Acapulco Green


        3 ripe avocados                           3 tablespoons wine

      1/2 cup chopped onions                    n/a vinegar

        2 teaspoons chili powder                1/2 cup chopped grass


  Mix the vinegar, grass, and chili powder together and let the mixture stand

for one hour.  Then add avocados and onions and mash all together.  It can be

served with tacos or as a dip.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                 Pot Soup


        1 can condensed beef                    1/2 can water

        3 tablespoons grass                     3 tablespoons chopped watercres         3 tablespoonon juice



  Combine all ingredients in a saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat.

Place in refrigerator for two to three hours, reheat, and serve.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                            Pork & Beans & Pot


                 1 large can (1 lb.,13 oz.) pork & beans

                 3 pineapple rings

                 4 slices bacon

               1/2 cup light molasses

               1/2 cup grass

               1/2 teaspoon kickory salt



  Mix together in a casserole, cover top with pineapple and bacon, bake at 350

degrees for about 45 minutes.  Serves about six.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                  Pot Loaf


                 1 packet onion soup mix

                 1 (16 oz.) can whole peeled tomatoes

                 1 egg

                 2 lbs. ground beef

                 4 slices bread, crumbed

               1/2 cup chopped grass


  Mix all ingredients and shape into a loaf.  Bake for one hour in 400 degree

oven.  Serves about six.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                Banana Bread


       1 teaspoon lemon juice                 1 cup mashed bananas

       1 cup sugar                            1 cup chopped nuts

       2 eggs                                 2 cups sifited flour

       3 teaspoons baking powder            1/2 cup chopped grass                    1/2 teaspoon sa                   1/2 cup shortening



  Mix the shortening and sugar, beat eggs, and add to mixture.  Separately mix

the bananas with lemon juice and add to the first mixture.  Sift flour, salt,

and baking powder together, then mix all ingredients.



 [\]  DOWNLOAD Completed.


Fun and altogether undefinable


   Call: RAT HEAD SYSTEMS - 415/524-3649  RoR-Alucard! - Tagged: 12/27/89

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

Newsgroups: rec.food.veg
From: red_trek@drycas.club.cc.cmu.edu
Subject: Vegan recipes! (long!!) from granola
Message-ID: <1993Apr24.160126.1@drycas.club.cc.cmu.edu>
Date: 24 Apr 93 20:01:26 GMT
Organization: Carnegie Mellon Computer Club
Lines: 3024

Warning: this posting is long! But it's filled with recipes!
Specifically, these were taken from the granola archieves.

Low fat recipes are mixed in throught all files.

================================================================================
 From: markets!bob@Sun.COM (Bob Schumaker -- "Software-in-a-bucket")
 Date: Sun, 8 Dec 91 18:22:41 PST
 Subject: VEGAN: African Peanut Soup
 Keywords: recipe vegan african peanut soup



 AFRICAN-SOUP(SPV)        USENET Cookbook        AFRICAN-SOUP(SPV)



 AFRICAN BEAN SOUP

      AFRICAN-SOUP - A Lenten soup with beans and peanuts

      This is a soup that we eat  during  Lent.  It  came  from  a
      Catholic leaflet that unfortunately I no longer have.

 INGREDIENTS (Serves 8)
      3 Tbsp    margarine
      2 cups    carrots thinly sliced
      12 cups   boiling water
      1 cup     black eye peas dry
      1 cup     navy beans dry
      1 cup     green pepper diced
      3 1/2 tsp salt
      1/8 tsp   crushed red pepper
      1 cup     salted peanuts chopped

      2 Tbsp    onion powder
      1 Tbsp    basil leaves crushed
      1 1/2 tsp ground coriander

 PROCEDURE
           (1)  Melt margarine in large stock pot.   Add  carrots.
                Cook for 5 minutes.

           (2)  Add water, black  eyed  peas,  navy  beans,  green
                pepper,  salt,  and  crushed  red pepper (add more
                water, if necessary, to cover).

           (3)  Cook, covered, until  ingredients  are  tender,  1
                1/2-2 hours.

           (4)  Add peanuts, onion powder,  basil,  and  coriander
                during last 10-15 minutes of cooking.

           (5)  Taste  to  correct  seasonings.   Soup  should  be
                thick.

 NOTES
      If you want more of a peanut flavor, add peanut butter  (any
      kind) to taste during step 4.  I use about 1/2 of a cup.

 RATING
      Difficulty: easy.  Time: 15  minutes  preparation,  2  hours
      cooking.  Precision: no need to measure.

 CONTRIBUTOR
      Bob Schumaker

      The AMIX Corporation, Palo Alto, CA
      bob@amix.com





                      Last change: 10 Mar 88                     1



================================================================================
 From: Shyamala Parameswaran <U15297@uicvm.uic.edu>
 Date: Friday, 27 Mar 1992 17:14:38 CST
 Subject: VEGAN: Alu Piajer Chorchori (Dry curried potato and onion)
 Keywords: recipe vegan alu piajer chorchori


 ALU PIAJER CHORCHORI ( dry curried potato and onion )


 Ingredients ( to serve 4-6 )
 5 medium sized potatoes, cut in half lengthwise and the sliced into 1/8" pcs.
 crosswise.
 4 onions cut in half lengthwise and then sliced thicker than normal.
 2 tsp. turmeric paste.
 1/2 tsp. chili paste.
 4-6 green chilies washed and slit.
 Salt to taste.
 2 tbsp. oil.
 1/2 cup water or as required.

 Heat oil. When a blue haze appears, add potatoes and fry for several minutes
 until potatoes turn opaque. Reduce heat, add onions and continue to fry,
 stirring now and then for a couple of minutes more.

 Add the turmeric, chili paste and salt to taste, mixing thoroughly and keep
 frying. Add green chilies.

 The potatoes and onions should cook as much as possible in their own juices,
 but if the curry gets too dry, test to see how much cooking the potatoes need
 and accordingly add water a little at a time.

 The cooked dish is dry and therefore adding of water should be judicious. The
 curry is done when the potatoes are cooked and there is practically no gravy.

 This curry can be reheated before serving, and is a good accompaniment with
 rice, luchis, or porota.

 ****

 And enjoy !! :-) !!

================================================================================
 From: uflorida!novavax!vaccaro@gatech.edu (Amanda Vaccaro)
 Date: 21 Nov 91 11:48:53 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Amanda's Tomato Sauce
 Keywords: recipe vegan amandas tomato sauce


 I have excellent suggestions for tomato sauce, if anyone is interested.


 This method was created by me after several burning episodes:


 Ingredients:
 ============

 fresh Italian parsley- no stems if possible: about a handful
 fresh basil: about 2 handfuls
 fresh ground pepper: to taste
 extra vigin olive oil: enough to cover the bottom of the pan
 sugar (OPTIONAL): about 3 tablespoons
 onions: 1 or two small ones
 tomato puree: at least two large cans (judgement call)
 tomato paste: one small can in case you screw up
 salt (OPTIONAL): a little
 corn syrup: only idiots like R*gu do that!!
 garlic: 3 or 4 cloves, sliced very thin, so they melt away

 Slice onions and garlic (slice garlic any way you like, but thin is
 good).  Pour oil in bottom of pan.  Put heat on medium.  Brown onions-
 when almost done add garlic, and brown both of them.  add about 32 oz
 water, herbs, salt, pepper, sugar. It should be an ugly, watery
 greenish mixture. Let it cook for about two hours over medium heat and
 stir once in a while.

 Cooking the watery mixture ensures that the parsley gets thoroughly
 cooked, otherwise it tastes "grassy".

 Add puree and stir well. Cook for about an hour. If it is too watery,
 you can add the paste to thicken it.

 You can do variations on the above: add browned lamb, sausages, chopped
 STEAK (no burgers!!), chunky tomatoes, or this other stuf called
 "Caponata", which is an eggplant and celery and olive ensemble.

 Enjoy!!
 AMV

================================================================================
 Date: 16 Oct 90 17:29:40 GMT

 From: campbell@acsu.buffalo.edu (roger campbell)
 Subject: VEGAN: Apple Butter



 >   I'd like to find recipes for these three recipes.
 >   As to the apple butter; my sister would like to make it, but none
 >   of her cookbooks have it.  A recipe on how to make apple butter
 >   would be much appreciated.

 Here's a recipe for apple butter, as found in "Joy of Cooking"

    For best results use Jonathan, Winesap, Wealthy or other well-flavored
 cooking varieties.

 Wash, remove the stems, and quarter:
     4 lb. apples
 Cook slowly until soft in:
     2cups water, cider or cider vinegar
 Put fruit through a fine strainer.  Add to each cup of pulp:

     1/2 cup white or brown sugar
 Add:
     1 teaspoon cinnamon
    1/2 teaspoon cloves
    1/4 teaspoon allspice
        (Grated lemon rind and juice is optional)
  Cook the fruit butter over low heat, stirring constantly until the sugar
 is dissolved.  Continue to cook, stirring frequently, until the mixture
 sheets from a spoon.  You can also place a small quantity on a plate.  When
 no rim of liquid separates around the edge of the butter, it is done.  Pour
 into hot sterilized jars.

     Roger Campbell       State Univ. of New York at Buffalo

      BITNET: CAMPBELL@UBVM
    INTERNET: campbell@acsu.buffalo.edu


================================================================================
 From: Shyamala Parameswaran <U15297@uicvm.uic.edu>
 Date: Wednesday, 4 Mar 1992 08:48:41 CST
 Subject: VEGAN: Apple Chutney (Seb ki Chatni)

 Keywords: recipe vegan apple chutney

 >From Vijay Madhavan's Cooking the Indian Way:

 Apple Chutney/Seb ki Chatni

 3 tart cooking apples, peeled, cored, and coarsely chopped
 1 cup chopped dried fruit such as peaches, apricots and pears
 1/2 cup golden raisins
 3 cloves garlic, chopped
 2 tspns finely chopped fresh ginger
 1 tspn salt
 1/4 tspn cayenne pepper
 1 cup white-wine vinegar
 1 1/2 cups sugar

 In a heavy saucepan, combine all ingredients and mix well. Bring to
 a boil over medium heat.

 Reduce heat and simmer for about 45 mins, stirring occasionally or
 until mixture is thick.

 Remove saucepan from heat and cool chutney to room temperature.

 Pour chutney into a non-metallic, covered container and refrigerate
 until ready to use.

 Makes 3 cups.
 ***

 Shyamala Parameswaran

================================================================================
 Date: Fri, 19 Oct 90 13:13:31 mdt
 From: Kirk Pearson <pearson@handel.cs.colostate.edu>
 Subject: VEGAN: Apple Crisp

 Apple Crisp


 Ingredients:

 8-10 apples
 1 cup sugar
 ground cinnamon
 1 stick butter (8 oz.), softened
 1 cup brown sugar
 pinch of salt
 1 cup flour

 Directions:

 Peel, core, and slice the apples and spread them in a rectangular cake pan.
 They should come almost to the top.  Pour sugar over apples.  Sprinkle
 cinnamon over apples to taste.  In a mixing bowl, mix butter, brown sugar,
 salt, flour.  It should have a mealy consistency, like dry oatmeal lumps.

 Spread the mix over the apples.  Bake at 350 F for 1/2 hour or until the
 apples are tender.  Serve warm or cold, plain or with vanilla ice cream.

 Don't plan on having any leftovers, but it reheats well.

 Kirk Pearson  pearson@handel.cs.colostate.edu


================================================================================
 From: MEDELMA@CMS.CC.WAYNE.EDU (Michael Edelman)
 Date: Thu, 15 Aug 91 18:34:25 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Apple Pie
 Keywords: recipe vegan/apple-pie


 Assuming you know how to make a piecrust, real apple pie is very simple:

 1. Press the piecrust dough into a pie pan.

 2. Peel, core and cut baking apples (Jonathans?) into wedges/

 3. Toss with cinnamon, allspice and perhaps 2T-1/4c sugar and a bit of
 tapioca, cornstarch or flour for thickening;

 4. Fill the crust generously.

 5. Cover with piecrust and make zillions of holes with a fork
                      *or*
    Cut strips of pastry dough and *weave* a lattice top, as my mom does,
    or did, when she made them regularly.

 6. Bake in a medium oven until brown.

               --mike

================================================================================
 From: fh07@sol.acs.unt.edu (Garrett Brett)
 Date: Sat, 22 Feb 1992 04:14:34 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Applesauce Cake
 Keywords: recipe vegan applesauce cake


 re request by KISTLER@Waisman.Wisc.Edu (ROOM 325 PH. 263-1968)


 APPLESAUCE CAKE

 1/2 cup oil
 1.5 cups sugar
 1.5 cups unsweetened applesauce
 2 cups flour
 1/2 tsp salt

 1.5 tsp baking soda
 1 tsp cinnamon    OR   1/4 tsp ginger     OR     1/2 tsp allspice
                      + 1/8 tsp cloves          + 1/8 tsp nutmeg

 Mix oil and sugar well, add applesauce, and mix in the dry
 ingredients.  Beat until smooth.  Pour into an oiled and floured pan
 and bake at 350 degrees for 45-50 minutes, slightly longer in a loaf
 pan.  This cake is even better the next day.

 Well, that's the recipe as it appears in The Farm Vegetarian Cookbook
 (more or less).  It's a typical Farm Cookbook cake recipe--no eggs, no
 dairy, but plenty of sugar.  Remarks:

 1.  The book specifies "white flour," but I had great
     results with whole wheat pastry.

 2.  The book says "8-inch cake pan or angel food cake pan," but an 8-inch
     pan is MUCH too small. As I recall, my 9-inch square pan nearly overflowed.

 3.  I don't remember which spice option I used.  I think I mixed cinnamon
     with one of the other two choices.

 4.  Nuts and raisins are good additions. Especially nuts sprinkled on top. YUM.

 Enjoy!

 Brett Garrett  fh07@sol.acs.unt.edu

================================================================================
 Date: 13 Nov 90 15:51:08 GMT
 From: halley!marym@cs.utexas.edu (Mary Matejka)
 Subject: VEGAN: Atole con Honholi

 This isn't a recipe. It is an interpretation of a demo a friend of mine
 did for me. Atole is gruel. This comes out about like thin malt-o-meal.
 You drink it.

 Incidentally, I would say that America has a love affair with vanilla.

 There is vanilla flavoring in just about everything remotely sweet. Now
 Mexico uses cinnamon alot. Even in the chocolate. And in Atole con
 Honholi (spelling uncertain my friend doesn't write stuff down).

 .5 C sesame seeds (honholi), toast in a pan til just turning golden
      grind in a blender until mealy, not floury
 4 C water or milk
 .5 C piloncillo (or dark brown sugar) or to taste. This is pretty sweet.
 .25 masa harina (more or less, depending on how thick you want it)
 1 tsp cinnamon

 Bring seame seeds, water(or milk) brown sugar and cinnamon to a boil.
 Sprinkle in masa harina (corn flour to you guys north of here)(thats
 *flour* not meal) and stir constantly. Add more flour if you want it

 thicker. Simmer for 5 minutes or so. Drink warm.

 The last time I made this I toasted the masa harina lightly. Gave it a
 little bit 'nuttier' flavor I think. And I prefer milk to water.

 cs.utexas.edu!halley!marym, marym@halley.UUCP, marym@halley.mpd.tandem.com


================================================================================
 Date: Mon, 1 Apr 91 16:21:58 GMT
 From: staffan@phos.serum.kodak.com (Kenneth Staffan (x37507))
 Subject: VEGAN: Avocado Salad Dressing


 bloom-beacon!mit-caf!angela@EDDIE.MIT.EDU (Angela Odoardi) writes:

 >Does anyone have a recipe for any Mexican-type (taco salad dressing)
 >made with Avocados (Guacamole)?  I would appreciate any suggestions.

 Well, I wasn't going to respond because my info is so sketchy, but I

 haven't seen any other responses yet:

 We make one from an ultra-easy recipe in the "Light and Spicy" cookbook
 by Barbara Gibbons (that's off the top of my head, but I think it's
 close).

 The only ingredients are ripe avocado, light italian dressing, and
 whole cumin seed.  I _think_ the ratio is one avocado to one-half cup
 dressing to one tablespoon cumin.  It's really tasty, but look for the
 book if you're concerned about exact proportions.

 Ken


================================================================================
 Date: 15 May 91 20:30:03 GMT
 From: "Mary Tabasko" <mctst@unix.cis.pitt.edu>
 Subject: VEGAN: Baba Ghanouj


 cmr@cvedc.Prime.COM (Chesley Reyburn) writes:

 >I am looking for recipes for tabouli and babaganoush (sp?).
 >-Tabouli recipes have appeared in digests 33, 34 and 36. -aem-

    ------------
    Baba Ghanouj
    ------------

    1 eggplant (about 1.25 lbs.)
    1/4 cup of olive oil
    1   clove of garlic, crushed
    1/2 cup of lemon juice
    1/4 cup of tahini
    2   T of minced parsley

  1. Cut the eggplant in half lengthwise and make several incisions in
     the flesh. Sprinkle the exposed meat with salt and let it drain for
     30 minutes.
  2. Coat a baking pan with the olive oil and place the eggplant

     face-down in the pan. Bake it in an oven preheated to 400F for
     about 20 or 30 minutes, until tender.
  3. Remove the eggplant and let it cool. Then scoop out the pulp and

     place it in a food-processor or blender. Discard the skin.
  4. Place the garlic in the blender with the eggplant and puree. Add
     alternately the lemon juice and the tahini. Finally, blend in the
     parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper if desired.
  5. Chill before serving. Sprinkle with paprika to add a bit of color,
     if you like. Serve with raw vegetables and toasted pita
     triangles.

 I got this recipe from my friend Monica Krueger. Thanks, Monica!

  -- Mary


================================================================================
 Date: 11 Jan 91 11:12:39 PDT
 From: warren@mdcbbs.com
 Subject: VEGAN: Bagels

 Bagels:

 4 1/4 to 4 3/4 c. all-purpose flour
 1 pkg. active dry yeast
 1 1/2 c. warm water (120 to 130 deg F)
 1/4 c. sugar

 Combine 2 c. of the flour and the yeast.  Add warm water, 3 Tblsp.  of
 the sugar, and 1 tsp. salt.  Beat w/electric mixer on low speed 30
 seconds, scraping bowl constantly.  Beat on high speed for 3 min.
 Using a spoon, stir in as much remaining flour as you can.  Turn out
 onto a lightly floured surface.  Knead in enough remaining flour to
 make a moderately stiff dough that is smooth and elastic (6-8 min.
 total).  Cover, let rest 10 min.  Working quickly, divide dough into 12
 portions.  Shape each portion into a smooth ball.  Punch a hole in the
 center of each ball with a floured finger.  Pull dough gently to make
 about a 2 inch hole, keeping bagel uniformly shaped.  Place on a

 greased baking sheet.  Cover, let rise 20 min.  (Start timing after 1st
 bagel is shaped.) Broil raised bagels about 5 inches from heat, 3-4
 min. turning once (tops should not brown).  Meanwhile, in a 12 inch
 skillet or 4 1/2 qt. dutch oven bring 6 c. water and remaining 1
 Tblsp.  sugar to boiling.  Reduce heat and simmer bagels, 4 or 5 at a
 time, for 7 min., turning once.  Drain on paper towels.  Place drained
 bagels on well greased baking sheet.  Bake at 375 deg F for 25-30 min.
 or till tops are golden brown.  Makes 12 bagels.

 Light Rye Bagels:  Prepare as above, except stir 1 tsp. caraway seed,
 if desired, in with the yeast.  Substitute 1 1/2 c. rye flour for 1 1/2
 c. of the stirred-in all purpose flour.

 Herb Bagels:  Prepare as above, except stir 1 1/2 tsp. dried basil,
 crushed; 1 1/2 tsp. dried dillweed; or 1 to 1 1/2 tsp.  garlic powder
 in with the yeast.

 Onion Bagels:  Prepare as above, except stir 2 Tblsp. dried minced
 onion and, if desired, 2 Tblsp. cooked bacon pieces into the flour with
 the yeast.

 Whole Wheat Bagels:  Prepare as above, except substitute 1 1/2 c. whole

 wheat flour for 1 1/2 c. of the stirred-in all purpose flour.  Stir 3/4
 c. raisins, if desired, in with 2whole wheat flour.

 From:  Better Homes and Gardens New Cookbook

 I've never tried these, but they sound good.  (Lots of work!)

 Enjoy,
 Connie
 :)


================================================================================
 Date: 5 May 90 06:50:37 GMT

 From: well!oster@well.sf.ca.us (David Phillip Oster)
 Subject: VEGAN: Bailey's Irish Cream bread machine bread

 Here is a tasty bread machine bread by Leigh Ann Hussey Oster:

 1   package yeast
 1   cup quaker oats
 3   cups bread flour
 1   tsp salt
 1/3 cup honey
 2   Tbsp Bailey's Irish cream or to taste
 1+1/4 cups very warm water.

 - ---
 put ingredients in pan in order listed, Select "white bread"
 press Start.

 it doesn't rise very high, but the texture is great.
 - --
 - -- David Phillip Oster - Note new address. Old one has gone Bye Bye.
  - -- oster@well.sf.ca.us = {backbone}!well!oster

================================================================================
 From: jane@tortoise.ee.lbl.gov (Jane Colman)
 Date: 17 Mar 1992 19:10:11 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Baked Beans
 References: <kscdivINN107@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan baked beans

 I made some just the other day, that were very good.  It's
 a slight adaptation of the recipe in The New Laurel's Kitchen.

 3 cups navy beans, cooked
 1 onion
 1/4 cup molasses
 1 tbsp. prepared mustard
 1 or 2 tbsp. soy sauce
 2 tbsp. rum

 Chop the onion and saute until soft.  Combine with all other
 ingredients, including a little of the water from cooking the beans,
 and bake covered at 350 degrees for 45 minutes to 1 hour.  Very simple,
 very good, a bit on the sweet side.

 Jane Colman     JLColman@lbl.gov


================================================================================

 From: rwedeman@attmail.att.com (Robin S Wedeman)
 Date: Tue, 29 Oct 91 10:01:21 EST
 Subject: VEGAN: Balsamic Marinade
 Keywords: recipe vegan balsamic marinade


 Balsamic Marinade

 1/4 cup balsamic vinegar
 2/3 cup olive oil
 salt
 pepper
 2 tablespoons of your favorite herb mixture
 (thyme, tarragon, basil, oregano)

 I marinade long strips of pork tenderloin then skewer accordian style
 with whole new potatoes and grill.  Its also quite good on chicken.

================================================================================
 Date: 7 May 91 02:35:28 GMT
 From: jmf@cs.brown.edu (Justin Ferrari)
 Subject: VEGAN: Banana Cream Pie


 This pie is much too simple to be as good as it is...

  Banana Cream Pie
  ----------------

 1 lb. extra firm, dry-packed tofu
 3 to 4 ripe bananas
 4 Tbsp. real maple syrup
 1 large graham cracker crust
 Chopped walnuts (optional)

 Press all excess water out of tofu and cube.  Combine bananas and syrup
 in blender/food processor.  Add tofu.  Blend until smooth.  Pour into
 crust.  Top with chopped walnuts, if desired.  Refrigerate until it
 sets.

 I suppose honey could be substituted for syrup.  You might also try
 topping with chopped bananas or strawberries instead of walnuts (just
 an idea, I haven't tried either).

  Justin Ferrari
   jmf@cs.brown.edu

================================================================================
 From: babs@jfwhome.funhouse.com (Babs Woods)
 Date: Fri, 3 Jan 1992 19:16:32 GMT

 Subject: VEGAN: Basic Pasta
 References: <km9523INN1j7@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan basic pasta

 In <km9523INN1j7@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 hans@software.mitel.com (Hans Johnsen) writes:

 >Having received a pasta making machine for christmas, I am now seeking
 >recipes for pasta which contain no eggs. Since we have never made pasta

 >before, any tips would also be greatly appreciated.

 In the Joy of Cooking you can find the following:

     Basic pasta

 2-1/2C white flour  2/3C water  1t olive oil

 In a bowl, mix dry ingredients and make a well.  Beat liquids and pour
 into well.  Mix dry ingredients until dough forms and as much of the
 flour as possible is mixed in.  Turn out on a floured board or table.
 Flour your hands and knead dough until smooth and elastic, dusting your
 hands as needed.

 Roll into a ball, warp with plastic wrap (or cover with a wet towel)
 and allow dough to rest 10 minutes.  Cut into four pieces and shape
 into desired pasta.  If dough gets sticky, lightly dust with flour.

 Green noodles:

 puree' approximately 1/4C fresh or frozen spinach with the oil and
 water in a blender.  Mix it with the eggs and beat together -obviously,
 if you're not using eggs, this just goes in as part of the amount of
 water you're using-.  Add as usual.

 Various other colorants may be used, instead of spinach:

 tomato paste
 puree'd tomatoes
 puree'd beets (drained, or substitute their liquid for water)
 puree'd cooked carrots

 -babs


================================================================================
 From: astels@fsd.cpsc.ucalgary.ca (astels)
 Date: 3 Jan 92 16:47:37
 Subject: VEGAN: Basic Pasta Dough
 References: <km9523INN1j7@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan basic pasta dough

 hans@software.mitel.com (Hans Johnsen) writes:

 >Having received a pasta making machine for christmas, I am now seeking
 >recipes for pasta which contain no eggs. Since we have never made pasta
 >before, any tips would also be greatly appreciated.


 >From the September 1991 issue of Vegetarian Times:

 Basic Pasta Dough
 =================
 1 cup ww pastry flour (we've found it works much better if half of this is
    unbleached white)
 pinch salt
 1 tsp. olive oil
 1/4 cup water

 Put it into a mixer with bread hooks or a food processor, and knead until
 really smooth.  I suppose you could also do this by hand, but I haven't

 tried it!

 We've also substituted 1/4 of the flour with kamut, buckwheat etc. to
 add extra flavor, and the recipe suggested that chopped spinach, herbs,
 or tomatoe paste could be added.

 astels@cpsc.ucalgary.ca Dave Astels
================================================================================
 From: Shyamala Parameswaran <U15297@uicvm.uic.edu>
 Date: Friday, 27 Mar 1992 17:14:38 CST
 Subject: VEGAN: Bati Chorchori
 Keywords: recipe vegan bati chorchori


 BATI CHORCHORI ( dry mixed vegetables )

 Ingredients ( serves 4-6 )
 200gms cauliflower florets.

 100gms shelled green peas.
 2 potatoes, peeled and cubed.
 1 medium eggplant, cubed.
 1 horseradish, peeled and cubed.
 1/4 onion, minced.
 1 tsp. turmeric paste.
 1/2 tsp. chili paste.
 2 tsp. mustard paste.
 3-4 green chilies, slit.
 4-6 tbsp. mustard oil.
 Salt to taste.

 This curry gets its name from the brass vessel ( bati ) in which it is
 cooked, so that the ingredients fit snugly in the bowl leaving just a
 one inch gap at the top. As a substitute, an aluminum or brass bowl
 with a tight fitting lid may be used.

 After cutting up all the  veggies, wash them well and place them in the
 bowl.  Add the mined onion, the masala pastes, and the green chillies.
 Add the oil and mix well after adding salt. Cover the bowl with its lid.

 Stir the vegetables occasionally over a medium-low heat, so they cook
 in their own juices withot any addition of water. remove from heat when
 the veggies are quite cooked and blended flavourfully with the spices.

 Any combination of vegetables may be used in preparing Bati Chorchori.

 This chorchori is a good accompaniment with rice.

================================================================================
 Date: Tue, 11 Jun 1991 20:53:25 GMT
 From: mlb@cisco.com (Marcia Bednarcyk)
 Subject: VEGAN: Barbequed Vegetables


 malcolm@castle.ed.ac.uk (Malcolm Douglas Brown) writes:

 \> Can anyone suggest vegetarian recipes for cooking on Barbeques?  Nut
 \> roasts are a possibility but ideas run dry after that.


 Sure! Lots! When I grill, I like to grill my entire dinner on over the
 coals, everything from appetizers to dessert. Here are some of the

 things I've done:

 1. skewered vegetables. Let marinate in Italian dressing or equivalent
    over night to pick up flavor. Cherry Tomatoes, chunks of green
    peppers, sweet onions, mushrooms, cubes of tofu (they really pick up
    the flavor), etc.  Soak the wooden skewers overnight before using to
    slow down the rate at which they blacken.

 2. Just skewered mushrooms. I separate these out because they are so
    incredibly delicious grilled that I often make them alone. Be sure
    to marinate them in some kind of oil-based marinade, or they dry out
    and shrivel up. (Try a mixture of olive oil, fresh organo, and
    garlic.) Brush on more of this oil as they're cooking. Be careful
    not to overdo it because the oil causes flare ups.

 3. Eggplant. This is also marvelous. Don't bother to salt/drain it, or it
    tends to get too dry on the grill. I like to use the Japanese
    eggplant sliced quite thin on the diagonal, grill until they start
    to blacken, and then toss the slices in a dressing made of olive
    oil, balsamic vinegar, oregano, salt, pepper, garlic, dash of sugar,
    and dash of cayenne/red pepper flakes.

 4. Corn on the cob. Take off all the silk you can, then soak it in water
    in the husk. Put on the grill....yum.

 5. Baked potatoes. Since I hate to waste heat, I often wrap up a few

    potatoes in foil (wash first, and pierce skins) and set them over
    the coals as they're burning out. I don't know how long they really
    take, as I leave them overnight and they're done in the morning :-).
    The coals give a very interesting flavor to the potato.

    Something I've thought of to do at the next BBQ: wash and halve
    small red potatoes, then wrap them in foil with butter and onions
    and garlic. They should take a lot less time, and I'd imagine the
    flavors will blend well.

 6. Tofu and fish and onions. This is a favorite of a friend...marinate
    them all in soy sauce and onions and olive oil, then wrap in foil
    with the onions and toss on the grill. This was fantastic.


 Marcia Bednarcyk          mlb@cisco.com

================================================================================
 From: Alison Rebecca Colman <ac10+@andrew.cmu.edu>
 Date: Fri, 21 Feb 1992 14:05:27 -0500 (EST)
 Subject: VEGAN: Bean and Fruit Bake
 Keywords: recipe vegan bean fruit bake

 Hi everyone!

 This is a vegan version of a recipe I lifted from "The Joy of Cooking".
 It sounds a tad yukky, but it is actually quite good. Also, the
 measurements are approximate, so one can adjust to their taste.

 Ingredients:

 1 can of beans (white northern or pinto are very good)
 1 onion (size depends on how much you like onions)
 1-2 cloves of garlic (I love garlic so I tend to use a lot.)

 1 medium sized apple
 1 orange
 2-3 tablespoons of honey

 2-4 tablespoons of maple syrup
 crushed nuts (almonds or cashews are good)
 cinnamon
 nutmeg
 rosemary
 white pepper

 Instructions:

 Put the beans in a small casserole dish or small bread-baking pan. Chop
 up the onions and spread them over the beans in the pan or dish. Do the
 same thing with the garlic, apple, and orange. Then, drizzle the honey
 then the syrup over the mixture. Mix the crushed nuts with the spices
 (use enough spices to suit your taste), and then drizzle the nut mixture
 over the beans and fruit. Bake at 300 degrees for 1-3 hours. Then put
 some on your plate and gobble it up!

================================================================================
 Date: 22 May 91 11:24:26 PDT
 From: warren@mdcbbs.com
 Subject: VEGAN: Bean Salad


 Bean Salad:

 1 c. green beans
 1 c. wax beans
 1 c. kidney beans
 1/2 c. celery, chopped
 1/2 c. green pepper, chopped
 1/2 c. oil
 1/2 c. vinegar
 3/4 c. sugar
 salt and pepper to taste

 I haven't made this, but it looks like the standard recipe.  (The beans
 would be canned or cooked then drained) I've also seen chickpeas in
 this salad.

 Hope it is what you're looking for,
 Connie


================================================================================
 Date: Mon, 1 Apr 91 18:08:34 GMT
 From: MEDELMA@CMS.CC.WAYNE.EDU
 Subject: VEGAN: Beans and Fruit (was Re: Weird Recipes)


 I apparently missed the first call for strange recipes, but I cannot
 let this pass without sharing a favorite of a girlfriend of some 17

 years past:

                      Beans and Fruit

   Mix 1 can Campbell's Baked Beans (the ones with 5 varieties of beans)
 with 1 can fruit cocktail. Heat just short of boiling and serve. I

 never did much care for this...

  I later served her my own version of Imam Bayeldi made with textured
 vegetable protein (she was a veg). She refused to believe that I hadn't
 served her meat, which says more about her powers of discrimination
 than about the believability of the TVP. Not surprising, considering
 her tastes...

     --mike edelman


================================================================================
 Date: 20 Jun 90 21:54:37 GMT
 From: Mary Kay Stanger <crg5!mkay%sequent.uucp@RELAY.CS.NET>
 Subject: Re: REQUEST: Beer Bread

 carioca@ucscb.ucsc.edu (fOoDFoOdfOoDiTYfooD!) writes:


 >Anyone out there have a recipe for beer bread?  I've ransacked
 >my cookbooks for one, with no success...

 I pulled this one off the net...

 Beer Bread

 3 cups self-rising flour
 3 Tablespoons sugar
 1-12 oz. can/bottle beer, at room temp.

 Mix all ingredients.  Spray 9X5 loaf pan with non-stick cooking
 spray.  Pour mixture into pan.  Bake at 375F for 40 minutes, or
 until brown.

 The last time I made this bread I used a bottle of Pete's Wicked Ale.
 It was very good; especially when it was still warm.  Mmmm.  Use a
 "good" beer; it is well worth the results.

================================================================================
 Date: Fri, 22 Feb 91 14:45:00 GMT

 From: kathy burton <burton@.uucp>
 Subject: VEGAN: Beer Bread


 >From: Laura Sabel <sabel@cs.cornell.edu>
 >From "Eat This ... It'll Make You Feel Better!" by Dom DeLuise

 3 cups self-rising flour
 1 12-oz can of beer
 2 tablespoons sugar

 Mix ingredients and put into greased loaf pan.  Don't overmix.  Bake at
 375 degrees for about 1 hour.

 Options:  You can cut down on the self-rising flour and add whole-wheat
 flour, bran flakes, rolled oats, nuts, and 1/2 cup raisins in any
 combination.  For example, I use 1 cup white flour, 1 cup whole-wheat
 flour, 1/2 cup bran flakes and 1/2 cup rolled oats.

 MAKES 1 LOAF.



================================================================================
 Date: 21 Jun 90 17:51:59 GMT
 From: Mary Kay Stanger <crg5!mkay%sequent.uucp@RELAY.CS.NET>
 Subject: Re: REQUEST: Beer Bread


 carioca@ucscb.ucsc.edu (fOoDFoOdfOoDiTYfooD!) writes:


 >Anyone out there have a recipe for beer bread?  I've ransacked
 >my cookbooks for one, with no success...

 I pulled this one off the net...

 Beer Bread

 3 cups self-rising flour
 3 Tablespoons sugar
 1-12 oz. can/bottle beer, at room temp.

 Mix all ingredients.  Spray 9X5 loaf pan with non-stick cooking
 spray.  Pour mixture into pan.  Bake at 375F for 40 minutes, or
 until brown.

 The last time I made this bread I used a bottle of Pete's Wicked Ale.
 It was very good; especially when it was still warm.  Mmmm.  Use a
 "good" beer; it is well worth the results.


================================================================================
 Date: 23 Feb 91 01:12:25 GMT
 From: mwoo@pyrnova.pyramid.com (Margaret Woo)
 Subject: VEGAN: Beer Bread

 burton@acplmc.uucp (kathy burton) writes:

 >I am looking for a recipe for Beer Bread.  I've been buying a mix that
 >you just add beer to (a quick bread - no kneading) and I'd like to make
 >my own dry mix.  Thanks!

 The best beer bread that I can make is simple:

 3 cups self-rising flour
 1/4 to 1/2 cup sugar (I like it sweet)
 1 can 12oz. beer (room temp)

 Mix everything together, bake at 350F for 1 hour, and enjoy.  Don't
 forget to grease the pan (I use Pam).

 You don't need a mix!

 Margaret Woo


================================================================================
 From: Shyamala Parameswaran <U15297@uicvm.uic.edu>
 Date: Sunday, 29 Mar 1992 11:05:15 CST
 Subject: VEGAN: Begun Sorse (Eggplant with Mustard)
 Keywords: recipe vegan begun sorse



 from Meenakshie Dasgupta's Bangla Ranna (Bengali Cooking):

 Begun Sorse
 (Brinjals with Mustard)

 500gms brinjals(eggplant)
 1 T turmeric paste
 1 t chili paste
 100gms dahi(yogurt)
 1/2 c water
 1 1/2 T finely ground mustard paste
 1/8 t panch phoran
 4-5 green chilies
 2 T oil for cooking
 salt and sugar to taste

 Cut brinjals in large pieces. Rub with a little turmeric and salt. Heat
 oil in a fry pan and fry brinjals until brown and nearly cooked. Remove
 and drain off oil.


 Heat the same oil in a wok/karai till it smokes. Add panch phoran and
 green chilies. Fry till spluttering stops. Add turmeric and chili
 pastes. Sprinkle a little water and fry the masalas well. Whip the
 the dahi and add to the fried masalas. Stir and cook a couple of
 minutes. Add the brinjals. Stir and continue simmering another
 10-15 mins. Add finely ground mustard paste. Mix well.

 Continue simmering until mustard paste is blended in, and there is
 very little gravy in the pan.

 N.B. Freshly prepared English mustard may be substituted for the
 ground mustard paste.

 Serves 4-6

================================================================================
 Date: Wed, 8 May 91 16:17:12 GMT
 From: lori@islander.asd.sgi.com ()
 Subject: VEGAN: Benihana's Ginger Sauce


 I recently went to Benihanas for dinner and managed
 to get the recipe for their ginger sauce.

 1/4 cup chopped onion
 1 small piece ginger root
     or 1/8 tsp ground ginger
 1/2 cup soy sauce
 1/4 cup rice wine vinegar

 Combine all ingredients in blender and process until smooth

 Makes 6 servings


================================================================================
 Date: 2 Nov 90 16:37:43 GMT
 From: boulder!khonshu!springer@ncar.UCAR.EDU (Jann Springer)

 Subject: VEGAN: Benner's Pepper Slaw


 Someone recently requested a "sweet and sour" type cole slaw for a
 dinner they were having this weekend. This may be to your liking.
 Warning: It makes alot. ;>

 Benner's Pepper Slaw


 2 C. sugar         \
 1 C. vinegar       \
 1/4 C. water       \  syrup
 1 t. celery seed   \
 1 t. mustard seed  \

 2 medium heads of cabbage
 1 T salt

 Shred the cabbage. Sprinkle the salt over the cabbage and let stand for
 1 hour. Drain. Heat syrup mixture until boiling and boil hard for 1
 minute. Cool overnight. Pour syrup over cabbage. Marinate for several
 hours and serve.


================================================================================
 From: siegle@ils.nwu.edu (Greg Siegle)
 Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1992 15:14:41 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Black Bean Chili
 Keywords: recipe vegan black bean chili

 Hi there. This version came over the net a while
 ago and it's worked quite well for me...

       -- Greg

 ===

 BLACK BEAN CHILI (makes about 12-15 cups)
    4 cups dried black beans
    2 large red bell peppers
    3 Tbs. cumin seed
    2-1/2 Tbs. dried oregano (leaf, not ground)
    1/2 cup olive oil
    2 large onions, finely chopped
    1-1/2 cups diced green bell pepper
    3 Tbs. minced garlic
    4-1/2 tsp. paprika
    1 tsp. cayenne pepper
    1 tsp. salt
    5 cups crushed tomatoes
    4 to 6 (or more!) fresh jalapenos, seeded and deveined, finely chopped

 Sort and rinse the beans, place them in a pot with ``enough'' water and
 soak them overnight.  Drain off water and rinse, add enough new water
 to cover by two inches and bring to a boil.  Simmer, covered, until
 beans are tender (about 1 hour), adding more water if necessary.  Drain

 beans, saving 3 cups of the liquid.  Return beans to pot with 1-1/2
 cups of the liquid.

 Roast the red bell pepper under the broiler until the skin is charred,

 then throw it into a paper bag and close the bag. Set it aside to cool.

 Heat oven to 325 degrees, put cumin seed and oregano in a small baking
 pan or casserole and roast until fragrant, shaking pan occasionally
 (about 10 minutes).

 Heat oil in skillet.  Saute onions, green pepper and garlic for 3
 minutes, then add cumin, oregano, paprika, cayenne and salt.  Cook about
 10 minutes more, then add tomatoes and jalapenos and bring to a boil for
 a couple of minutes.  Stir all this in with the beans.

 Get the red bell pepper out of the bag, peel the skin off, remove seeds
 etc.  (After peeling, if any parts look like they got badly burned, cut
 them away.) Chop and add to beans.

 Simmer everything for a while, thinning with the rest of the saved bean
 liquid as desired.

================================================================================
 From: Fiona Jamieson <fj@cumbrae.dcs.ed.ac.uk>
 Date: 14 Jan 92 15:41:42 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Black Bean Chili
 References: <kn3h4fINNhk5@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan black bean chili2



 Sanjiv Singh was looking for this, I haven't actually made it due to a
 chronic shortage of black beans in Edinburgh, but as soon as I find
 some ...

 This recipe comes from "Hot & Spicy" by Marlena Spieler, a great book!

 BLACK BEAN CHILI

 Ingredients :

 8oz(225g) black beans   900ml water
 700ml vegetarian soup stock  500ml tomato sauce (or chopped toms)
 2 tbsps olive oil   2 chopped onions
 5-8 cloves garlic (chopped)  1/2 sweet red pepper (diced)
 1/2 mild chilli    1 tbsp cumin
 2 tbsps mild chili powder  1 tbsp oregano
 1-2 tbsps salsa or hot pepper seasoning
 1oz (25g) chopped coriander leaves (cilantro)

 Method :

 1) Sort through the beans to remove any pebbles etc. Place in a large
 pot and add the water.  Soak overnight, or boil for 2 mins, remove
 from the heat, cover and let stand for an hour.

 2) Drain, then pour over fresh water to cover and bring to the boil.
 Reduce the heat and simmer for 1.5 hours, or until just tender. Add
 the stock and tomato sauce, then raise the heat and cook over a
 medium-high heat until the liquid reduces and thickens somewhat and
 the beans begin to fall apart into an ebony stew

 3) Meanwhile, heat the olive oil in a frying pan and saute the onion,
 garlic and red pepper, mild chilli, spices and oregano until the onion
 is limp. Add to the beans with the salsa and continue to simmer for

 another 30-45 mins. If the mixture is too soupy at the end of cooking
 then raise the heat to high and boil off some of the liquid. Take care
 to stir the bottom every so often so that it does not burn.

 4) Serve hot, garnished with corainder/cilantro

 Happy cooking !

 Fiona

================================================================================
 Date: 22 Nov 90 19:06:21 GMT

 From: jfwhome!babs@ursa-major.spdcc.com (Babs Woods)
 Subject: VEGAN: Black beans with stuffed green olives, and Cumin and
                 garlic cooked cabbage



  I love to play in the kitchen and invent new ways to use
 foodstuffs up, but I also like to find new foodstuffs to work with.
 Well, I went away to a Retreat at the end of last month and they serve
 vegetarian and macrobiotic fare.  This time my friend Russ was the
 co-cook with one other person and they made plain black beans, among
 some other dishes.  Well, I thought I'd try them and to make them more
 interesting I came up with this:

 Babs Woods    ca. Nov. 6, 1990

  Black beans and stuffed green olives

 1C dried black beans (Soaked 4hrs. in 4C water)

 1C chopped onion 2 cloves minced garlic
 1t chili powder  2 small bay leaves
 1C chopped celery 1C chopped carrots
 1/2t black pepper 4C water
 1/4C green olives, stuffed with pimientos (salad olives
  are fine), rinsed and drained (if desired)

  Combine drained soaked beans and everything but the olives in a
 pot.  Bring to a boil and hold there about 10-30 minutes, cover.
 Simmer about 2 hours.  Stir in the olives.  (Or stir in olives about 15
 minutes before serving.)

  This should not be soupy, nor should it be too gloppy.  Watch
 it carefully in the last 45 minutes of cooking (30 minutes before you
 add the olives).

 Serve with rice or corn and whatever you want.  Serve hot.  Serves
 about 4.


 This dish goes well in tortillas with salsa, cheese, veggies; much as
 you would fill a taco.  Serve rolled and filled tortillas on a bed of
 lettuce or cooked cabbage (below), topped with melted cheese, salsa,
 chopped tomatoes and anything else you want to add.

 Experiment.  Enjoy!

  ---------------------


   Cumin and garlic cooked cabbage

 3C shredded raw cabbage (red or green) (about)
 1t cumin seeds  1-2 cloves garlic
 2T oil   some hot water

  Heat the oil in a hot wok.  Slice the garlic and toss it in the
 oil about 5 seconds or so.  Add the cumin seeds, stir about 2 seconds.
 Throw in the cabbage, stirfry to coat well.  Stirfry about 2 minutes.
 Add about 3/4-1C hot water or so.  Cook until almost dry (it's
 important not to add too much water).  Serve hot.


================================================================================
 From: Christopher Possanza <norvien@byron.u.washington.edu>
 Date: Mon, 2 Sep 91 11:59:27 -0700
 Subject: VEGAN: Black Rice with Coconut Milk
 Keywords: recipe vegan/black-rice

 Someone recently requested a recipe for this; I got this one from a
 local newspaper.  You might be able to find the bai toey leaves in an
 oriental grocery store.  I've made this once, and it was very good.

 Black Rice with Coconut Milk

   2 cups glutinous black rice     1 cup sugar
   3 cups water       1/8 tsp salt
   1 can (13.5 oz) coconut milk     2 dried bai toey (pandanus) leaves


 Wash and drain the rice.  In a medium-sized pot, uncovered, bring the
 rice and water to a boil over high heat, stirring occasionally.  Reduce
 heat to low, cover and simmer for 30 minutes, or until the rice is
 soft.  Let the rice cool.  In a saucepan, cook the coconut milk, sugar,
 salt, and bai toey leaves, uncovered, over low heat for 20 minutes,
 stirring occasionally.

 Discard the leaves.  Scoop spoonfuls of rice into individual serving
 dishes, then pour the coconut mixture on top.  Serve at room
 temperature.  If you do not eat all this dessert at one meal, you can
 refrigerate the rice and coconut mixture separately, then bring back to
 room temperature by warming at 100 percent power for 1 minute in a
 microwave oven.  The coconut mixture will separate during
 refrigeration, so stir with a fork until smooth.

================================================================================
 From: dmferrell@happy.colorado.edu
 Date: 24 Jul 91 08:02:13 MDT
 Subject: VEGAN: Blackberry Jam
 Keywords: recipe VEGAN
 Message-ID: <28956F3D.307F@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>



 Basically I do all my jam recipes the same, making variations as I want
 to experiment.

 Crush your berries to the desired texture.  If you want more of the
 fruit integrity, don't crush them very much.  Sprinkle very lightly
 with some sugar so that they will start forming a juice.  Measure 5
 cups of fruit and juice in a non-aluminum heavy pot.  Add 5 cups of


 sugar and mix well.  On a medium to high heat (don't use a real high
 heat as this will scorch the fruit and leave an awful taste in the jam)
 bring the mixture to a good heavy boil.  Remove any scum that forms.

 Add one package dry pectin and stir in well.  Keeping the mixture in a
 good boil, cook until the jam has reached the jelling point.  (I'm at
 work and can't look up the exact temperature--but to test for jelling
 stir down the mixture with a thin spoon such as a metal serving spoon,
 remove and holding the spoon at almost a straight angle down, let the
 jam slide off the spoon.  If the last two or three drops come together
 to form a sheet and sheet off the spoon the jam has reached the jelling
 point.)  Have your sterilized bottles ready along with the lids and
 rings simmering in hot water.

 Pour the jam into the jars, wipe the rims and seal.  The current USDA
 recommendations are to process the jam in a hot water bath for 10
 minutes for pints and to use the two part lids to seal and to not use
 pectin to seal the jars.  If you would rather not use refined sugar in
 your jam, the best bet is to contact your local county extension
 homemaker agent and ask for recipes using honey. I have never tried any
 using honey as I don't want the taste of the honey in the jam, but I
 have been told by friends that you can make very good jams using
 honey.  Sorry I can't tell you how long to boil the mixture as I live
 in the clouds and we have to boil everything longer than those of you

 who live closer to sea level.  Hope this helps.

================================================================================
 From: spieler@function.mps.ohio-state.edu (Barry S Spieler)
 Date: Wed, 24 Jul 1991 14:04:46 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Blackberry Sauce (for poultry)
 References: <288CFC1F.33BB@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe VEGAN
 Message-ID: <2895702C.309D@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>


 Spyros D. A. Antoniou <SDA106@psuvm.psu.edu> writes:

 >Since blackberries season is here and I have collected some, does
 >anyone have a recipe for them.

 This past weekend I also picked more blackberries than a human can
 eat.  I made up this concoction as a sauce for duck (or other poultry),
 and it came out great:

 Put a pint of blackberries in a saucepan, moisten with about 1/3 to 1/2
 Cup of dry red wine.  Add a mashed clove of garlic, a couple of sprigs
 of fresh rosemary, some sugar (6-10 teaspoons, depending on how sour or
 sweet the berries are), and salt to taste.  Bring to a boil, cover, and
 simmer 10 minutes, occasionally stirring and mashing berries against
 side of pan with a spoon.

 Important note:

 This experiment achieved very good marks from my guests, except for one
 problem:  I didn't bother to remove the seeds, and a couple of people
 (myself included) grew tired of the hard seeds interrupting our
 enjoyment of the flavor.  You will probably want to strain the sauce
 somehow when it's done.  Maybe someone who has experience with berries

 and/or food mills and the like could e-mail me a note about how to best
 deal with blackberry seeds!


  -Barry Spieler
================================================================================
 Date: 6 Aug 90 18:26:09 GMT
 From: cochran%iris.usc.edu@usc.edu (Steve Cochran)
 Subject: VEGAN: Black-Eyed Peas Recipes

 >
 >I would like some recipes using black-eyed peas, which I think are
 >widely unexploited.

   I agree.  When looking for a good source of soluble fiber a couple
 of years ago, I decided that they provided the best, low-cost source.
 I have used two recipes of the last couple of years, the first I threw
 together from what was around, and the second I modifed from a Boston
 Baked Beans recipe (when I got tired of always eating the first).  I
 use a Crok Pot, but a bean pot in the oven at about 300F for 8 hours
 should work as well.

  Steve

 - --------------------------------------------------------------------

   STEVE'S BLACKEYE PEAS

 Difficulty:  Easy
       Time:  20 minutes preparation
              + overnight soak for peas
              + 6-15 hours cooking
     Yields:  ~2.5-3 quarts cooked Blackeye Peas
              (1 cup contains about 10g. soluble fiber)

 Ingredients:

     1 lb   Blackeye Peas
     2 16oz cans   Stewed Tomatoes (chopped)
     2 med   Onions (coarse chopped)
     3-4 stalks   Celery, with leaves (chopped)
    ~3 cup   Water

     Spices to taste (I use something like the following):

     4 Tbl   Worcestershire Sauce

     2 Tbl   Chili Power
     2 Tbl   Rice Vinegar (or more to taste)
     3 med cloves  Garlic (or 4 small)
     2 tsp   Basil
     1 tsp     Thyme
     1 tsp     Sage
     2 leaves   Bay Laurel
     1/2 tsp   Black pepper (or more to taste)
     1/3 tsp       Tabasco Sauce

 Preperation:

  Examine and sort the peas.  Add 6-8 cups cold water and let
 stand overnight (or for 6-8 hours).  Discard water and rinse the peas.
 Place the soaked peas in a crok pot and add the tomatoes, onions,
 celery and spices (vary spices as desired).  Add water to cover and
 mix together.  Cook on Low setting for 12-15 hours or High for 6-8

 hours.  (Add water if necessary to cover during cooking).  Serve hot
 or cold -- it keeps in the refrigerator for upto one week.

 - --------------------------------------------------------------------

   Boston Baked Blackeye Peas


 Difficulty:  Easy
       Time:  10 minutes preparation
              + overnight soak for peas
              + 6-15 hours cooking
     Yields:  ~1.5-2 quarts cooked Blackeye Peas
              (1 cup contains about 10g. soluble fiber)

 Ingredients:

     1 lb   Blackeye Peas
     1/2 cup   Molasses
     1 Tbl   Mustard
     1 tbs   Thyme
     1 tbs   Sage
    ~2.5 cup   Water

 Preperation:

  Examine and sort the peas.  Add 6-8 cups cold water and let
 stand overnight (or for 6-8 hours).  Discard water and rinse the peas.
 Place the soaked peas in a crok pot.  Mix the Molasses, Mustard and

 spices with about 1/4 cup warm water and add to the peas.  Add enough
 water to cover and cook on Low setting for 12-15 hours or High for 6-8
 hours.  Add water during cooking to keep the beans covered, but during
 the last hour or two, let the mixture thicken.  Serve hot or cold --
 it keeps in the refrigerator for upto one week.

 - --------------------------------------------------------------------

 - --
 - ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Steven Cochran, Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Systems
 University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California  90089-0273
 Phone: (Lab) 213-743-0990; (Home) 818-767-3812


================================================================================
 From: nsh3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu
 Subject: VEGAN: Bombay Palace appetizer
 References: <kki98bINNlo8@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan bombay palace appetizer

 This is a second Indian recipe.  It is an unfailing favorite everywhere
 we make it.  It is a deep-fried appetizer, great with cocktails, and
 for best effect, should be served with a fresh chutney, such as
 coriander leaves ground with fresh ginger, chopped green chilli pepper,
 some yogurt and maybe some mint leaves.

 Cut into matchsticks:
  1 large potato
  1 small eggplant
  1 onion


 There should be about equal amounts of each.

 Mix together about 1/4 cup of white flour with 1/2 cup of chick pea
 flour (called *bessan* and quite a unique thing, which has the aroma

 and aftertaste of sprouted mung beans) and 1/2 tsp salt, some coarsely
 ground black pepper, 1 tsp ground coriander seed, 1 tsp ground cumin,
 and about 1 Tbsp of whole coriander seeds.

 Mix the flours and seeds into the vegetables, sprinkle on a couple of
 Tbsps of water--VERY LITTLE water--and mix together with your hands
 until it just holds together.  It's gooey.

 Fry tablespoons of this mixture in about 3/4 inch of very hot vegetable
 oil until golden brown--about 5 minutes.  Drain and serve hot.

 This comes from a lavish cookbook produced by the New York restaurant
 called The Bombay Palace, and which has sister restaurants in Europe.
 The food at the restaurant is wonderful, but the cookbook, for the most
 part (edited by the food critic Stendal) is a bust.  The recipes do not
 make up well, usually, with some exceptions.  This is one.

================================================================================
 From: Teresa C D Carstensen <tcarsten@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu>
 Date: Wed, 4 Dec 91 13:11:50 EST
 Subject: VEGAN: Boston Cranberry Pie
 Keywords: recipe vegan boston cranberry pie

 Someone had requested recipes for warm cranberry dishes.  This probably
 isn't quite what they had in mind, but it sure is good!

 This recipe was taken from _The United States Regional Cookbook_ (by
 The Culinary Arts Institute, Ruth Beroltheizer, ed., Consolidated Book
 Publishers, Inc., 1947).  It's a wonderful cookbook, BTW - well worth
 picking up if you can ever find a copy :-).



                        Boston Cranberry Pie

 2 tablespoons cornstarch              1 cup seedless raisins
 1 cup sugar                           2 cups cranberries
 1/4 teaspoon salt                     1 tablespoon margarine
 1 1/4 cups hot water
                  1 recipe Plain Pastry (following)

 Blend cornstarch with sugar and salt, gradually add hot water and cook
 in double boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly.  Add the
 raisins, cranberries, and butter, and cook 5 minutes.  Line piepan with
 pastry and brush with melted butter.  Add filling, and cover top with
 1/2 inch strips of pastry, crisscrossed.  Bake in a very hot oven (450
 degrees F) for 20 minutes.  Makes 1 9-inch pie.


                          Plain Pastry

 2 cups sifted flour                   4 to 6 tablespoons cold water
 3/4 teaspoon salt                     2/3 cup shortening

 Sift flour and salt together and cut in shortening with 2 knives or
 pastry blender, until consistency of course meal.  Add the water, using

 only a small portion at a time, until the mixture will hold together.
 Divide the dough into 2 parts.  Roll out on a floured board to desired
 size.  Makes 2 9-inch shells or one 2-crust 9-inch pie.


 tcarsten@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu         a.k.a. TC

================================================================================
 Date: 19 Jun 91 14:50:31 GMT
 From: tine@buitc.bu.edu (Christine Erickson)
 Subject: VEGAN: Spicy Broccoli-Orzo Salad



 I made this for a rained out picnic this past weekend-it came out
 quite well.  And it's really easy to make.


 Spicy Broccoli-Orzo Salad

 2 1/2 cups steamed broccoli florets
 8 oz.      orzo cooked & drained
 2 large    tomatoes, chopped
 3 medium   green onions, chopped
 3 Tbs.     chopped fresh parsley
 1 Tbs.     olive oil
 1 Tbs.     red wine vinegar
 1 tsp.     salt
 1 tsp.     pepper
 1 tsp.     garlic powder

 Combine all ingredients in a bowl and toss.
 Cover and refrigerate overnight.
 Serve slightly chilled or at room temperature.


================================================================================
 Date: Mon, 6 Aug 90 15:18:05 EDT
 From: a.e.mossberg <aem>
 Subject: VEGAN: Mabry Mill Buckwheat Cakes

 -adapted from Mabry Mill recipe flyer-

 Mabry Mill Buckwheat Cakes

 2 cups buckwheat flour
 1 cup white flour
 1 tsp. salt
 1/3 cup sugar
 1/2 cake yeast
 1 qt. warm water

 Blend the buckwheat and white flour. Dissolve yeast in warm water.
 Make the batter, add 1/2 cup of corn oil, and let set at room temperature
 for one hour. Place in refrigerator overnight. When used, add small amount
 of baking soda if desired to lighten sourness of yeast.




================================================================================

 Date: 25 Apr 90 16:01:45 GMT
 From: jrt@PacBell.COM (John Trinterud)
 Subject: Burmese Lime Pickle Recipe


                        Burmese Lime Pickle
 (THAMBAYA THI THANAT)


 Make in the summer.  They marinate/pickle in a sunny window for 1+ months.

 From: The Burmese Kitchen by Copeland Marks and Aung Thein

 4 green limes quartered
 2 tsp salt

 2 tbl oil
 1" ginger cut into 4 slices  (candied ginger works nicely)
 1 tbl. white or cider vinegar
 2 tbl. sugar
 1 tbl. paprika
 1 tsp. garam masala
   (spice mixture that can include cinnamon, cloves, cumin, pepper, etc.  See
    Indian cookbook)
 1 tsp. cumin seeds
 2 cloves garlic, sliced

 1) Squeeze 1/2 the juice from each lime.  Mix the lime pieces with 1 tsp. of
 salt and put them in a jar with a tight lid.  Leave in a sunny window for
 4 days.  (I recommend adding something between the jar and it's lid because
 the salt tries to rust the lid.  A piece of plastic or fabric would probably
 work.)  Rotate the jar occassionally (daily) to keep everything mixed up.
 Save the extra lime juice for another purpose.

 2) Add the remaining 1 tsp. salt and mix and let the limes pickle in the
 sunny window for 1-2 months.  turn the jar around to mix everything up every
 couple of days.

 3) Heat the oil, add ginger and stir fry until the ginger is lightly browned.
 Add vingar, limes and the juice from the lime jar.  Mix and cook until the
 vinegar evaporated (2-4 minutes or so).  Add the paprika, garam masala, cumin
 and garlic.  Stir Fry from about 3 more minutes.

 4) Place in a clean jar and cover with a tight lid.  Can store on the shelf
 or will keep indefinitely in the refridgerator.


 5) Serve with a Burmese or Indian meal.
 - --

 >From the net a while back - I haven't tried this one.

 John Trinterud

 - --

          jrt@PacBell.COM            "More miracles happen in handicapped
    {backbones}!pacbell!pbhyf!jrt           parking spaces than in
  John Trinterud - Pacific -*- Bell    all the churches of Christendom"


================================================================================

 Date: Thu Nov 22 14:25:37 GMT 1990
 From: fruitbat@tardis.computer-science.edinburgh.ac.uk
 Subject: VEGAN: Button Onions with Sultanas

 I hate button onions. <plop>. I hate button onions. <plop>. I never
 want to see one again. <plop>. I hate button onions. <plop>. Is that a
 pound yet? <plop>. Peepo belly bum drawers <plop>.

                    - Button onions with Sultanas -

  -Ingredients-

 1 lb (500g) small pickling onions
 2 fl oz (1/4 cup) olive oil
 3 oz (75g) sultanas
 1/2 pint (1 1/4) vegetable stock
 2 fl oz (1/4 cup) wine vinegar
 1 clove garlic, crushed
 1 tbsp tomato puree
 Bouquet garni
 Salt and black pepper
 Fresh parsley to garnish

  -Method-

 Pour boiling water over the unpeeled onions, let stand for a few
 minutes, then drain. Now peel the onions and trim off the root ends.

 Place the onions in a large pan with the oil, sultanas, stock, vinegar,
 garlic, tomato puree and bouquet garni. Season to taste with salt and
 pepper.

 Bring the contents of the pan to boil, then lower the heat, cover and

 simmer for 40-50 minutes until the onions are tender when pierced with
 a sharp knife.

 Remove the bouquet garni and transfer to a serving dish. Serve hot or
 cold sprinkled with parsley.

  -Note-

 For a stronger flavour add 3 cloves, 5 pink peppercorns and a small
 piece of mace.


================================================================================
 From: bcrowley@hamp.hampshire.edu
 Date: Fri, 20 Dec 1991 14:08:14 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Candied Popcorn
 Keywords: recipe vegan candied popcorn

 Regarding a recipe for candied popcorn. We use maple syrup and cook it
 in a microwave.  Put a 1/4 cup of maple syrup in a microwaveable bowl,
 and place approx. 1 cup of popcorn in. Set to hi and cook for 5 mins.
 After 5 mins remove bowl and dump uncooked popcorn out return bowl to
 microwave a nuke for another min approx.  BE careful with the popcorn
 as it is very hot  and will burn if you touch it.  Do not cook longer
 than 5 min as it will burn the popcorn.

 Good luck


 Bob C

================================================================================
 From: starkey@netcom.com (Sean Starkey)
 Date: Tue, 24 Dec 91 19:39:41 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Candy Balls
 Keywords: recipe vegan candy balls


 Here is a recipe that sounds like the "Reese's peanut butter bars that
 look like buckeyes" requested last week.

 These are one of my family's annual Christmas goodies.

 CANDY BALLS

 1 1/2 pounds powdered sugar
 3 C peanut butter
 1 stick oleo margerine

 12 oz. chocolate chips
 1/2 inch slice paraffin

 Mix powdered sugar, peanut butter and oleo. Make balls (~1/2). Melt chocolate
 chips and paraffin. Dip balls in chocolate. Put on wax paper to cool and dry.
 Place in container. Store in cool place.

================================================================================
 Date: Tuesday, 30 Apr 1991 13:57:17 IST
 From: Annice Grinberg <IU3005@BARILVM.BITNET>
 Subject: VEGAN: Carob Balls


 Here is an easy no-bake cookie for the summer months.

                           CAROB BALLS

 1/2 cup peanut butter (plain or chunky)
 1/2 cup carob powder
 1/2 cup honey
 1 cup toasted wheat germ
 1 cup chopped peanuts (or other nuts)
 1 tsp vanilla extract (optional)
 unsweetened shredded coconut

 Mix together everything except the coconut.  Form into walnut-sized
 balls with wet hands.  Roll in coconut and put onto a waxed-paper lined
 cookie sheet.  Refrigerate till firm.  Store in the refrigerator or
 freezer in a plastic bag.

                                            Makes about 36
 Annice


================================================================================
 From: darsie@eecs.ucdavis.edu (Richard Darsie)
 Date: Fri, 20 Mar 92 15:27:44 -0800
 Subject: VEGAN: Casablanca Couscous
 Keywords: recipe vegan casablanca couscous



 I got this recipe off the back of a box of whole-wheat couscous
 ("Fantastic" brand, I think), and it has become one of our all-time
 favorites.  Has a nice bite to it...


 If anyone has any good vegetarian mideastern recipes to share,
 please post them!

 CASABLANCA COUSCOUS

 INGREDIENTS:

 1 c. couscous                1 c. sliced carrots
 1.5 c. water                 1 c. sliced celery
 1.5 lb. tofu;, cubed         1 can chickpeas
 1 can tomato sauce           1/2 c. raisins
 1 onion, chopped             2 tsp. curry powder
 1 c. sliced mushrooms        1/4 tsp.cayenne
 1/2 c. chopped walnut        1 tsp. ea. paprika, salt


 INSTRUCTIONS:

 Vegetable mixture: In large pan, brown tofu, onion, carrots, celery,
 mushrooms, nuts in 3 T. oil.  Add remaining ingredients, bring to boil,
 cover andsimmer for 40 minutes.  Couscous:  Boil 1.5 c. water with
 2 T. oil.  Pour over couscous, stir, cover, let stand for 5 min. or
 until water is absorbed.  Serve vegetables over steaming couscous.

================================================================================
 Date:  Sun, 3 Mar 1991 14:00:12 -0400
 From: 880039a@aucs.acadiau.ca (Katherine Astels)
 Subject: VEGAN: Indian Flat Bread (Chapatis)

  Indian Flat Bread  (Chapatis)
  -----------------------------

 4 cups wholewheat flour
 2 tsp salt
 2 tbsp ghee  (oil - I use canola)
 1 cup water  ( or a bit more)

 Boil water.  Mix everything together and knead for at least 10 mins.
 (I put it in the mixer and come back later)  It should have enough
 water in it to form a ball.

 Let sit 2 - 6 hours.  The longer it sits, the more air bubbles will be
 in the bread.


 Divide dough into balls the size of walnuts.  Flour a surface then roll
 out the balls as thin as possible.

 Heat (but don't grease) a heavy based frying pan (an electric one works
 well) and fry the rounds for about 1 - 1.5 mins on each side.

 Note:
 This dough can also be used to fill with vegetables and deep fried.

 Katherine Astels P.O. Box 835    Internet: 880039a@AcadiaU.CA



================================================================================
 From: Wendy Campbell <WCAMPBEL@vma.cc.nd.edu>
 Date: Sunday, 8 Dec 1991 19:19:08 EST
 Subject: VEGAN: Cherry Pie
 References:  <kjl9qiINNdl@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan cherry pie

 starkie%eddore@titan.trl.OZ.AU (Brad Starkie) says:

 >I have more cherries from a tree in my yard than I know what to do
 >with. Anybody know a good recipe for cherry pie.  I've never seen one
 >so I don't know where to start.

 Take enough cherries to heap into a pie crust.  Cook them (after
 removing seeds) slightly until you have some juice.  Add sugar to taste
 and just enough corn starch to thicken.  Place in pie shell and cover
 with a second shell.  Poke some ventilation holes in top.  Bake at 350F
 until crust is golden brown.

 Good luck.

 Wendy

 Wendy Campbell wcampbel@vma.cc.nd.edu
================================================================================
 From: Gene J <U46837@uicvm.uic.edu>
 Date: Wednesday, 14 Aug 1991 14:21:40 CDT
 Subject: VEGAN: Chick Pea Dip

 References:  <28A178C0.1FC8@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan/chick-pea-dip


 Chick Pea Dip (Hummos bi Taheeni):

 15-16 oz.            canned chick peas (garbonzo beans)
                      I use "Allen's" brand, which is the cheapest.
 1/4 cup              liquid in which peas were canned
 1-2 cloves           garlic
 1/4 cup              tahini
 1/3 cup              lemon juice
 1/8 teaspoon         cumin

 Garnishes (optional):  olive oil
                        paprika
                        black olives
                        pimento strips
                        parsley
                        cilantro

 1-  Puree all ingrediants in a blender, slowly adding the chick peas
     last.

 2-  Add additional tahini and/or lemon juice to taste, if necessary.

 3-  Spread on a serving platter and lightly drizzle with olive oil
     and garnish.  Serve at room temperature with pita bread for
     dipping.

 This recipe is derived from the ARABIAN CUSINE cookbook.


 GENE J
 <U46837@UICVM.CC.UIC.EDU>
================================================================================
 From: amyf@tekig5.pen.tek.com (Amy K Farrell) 120391
 Date: Wed, 11 Dec 91 19:49:03 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Chickpea and Potato Curry
 References: <kki98bINNlo8@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan chickpea potato curry

 I can recommend *New Recipes from Moosewood Restaurant*, on which this
 recipe is based. It's not entirely vegetarian, but quite a few of the

 recipes are vegetarian. It might be an ideal book for someone who's
 trying to cut down on meat. (I am vegan and find it worthwhile.)

 Don't be alarmed by the long list of ingredients! This is pretty easy if you
 get everything measured and/or chopped before you start cooking.

 This recipe is based on the "Mixed Vegetable Curry" from *New Recipes from
 Moosewood Restaurant*, by the Moosewood Collective. The mixed vegetable curry
 is also wonderful, and somewhat less starchy. The spice mix I list here, in
 fact, is identical to the Moosewood recipe.

 I came up with this variation because I wanted to duplicate a favorite dish
 of mine, Alo Chana Massala, which I used to eat at a little Indian restaurant
 on the other coast. With rice, it's a meal in itself, as far as I'm concerned.
 (It has to be, because I learned to cook in a coop of 35 people and I can't
 seem to master cooking for one.)

 But, I digress. "Feeds 4-6" is probably valid if you're using this as a main
 dish. Maybe even more. It's also quite spicy, if you follow my directions
 exactly. (It's spicier if you ignore my directions the way I do!)

 Chickpea and Potato Curry
 =========================

 Ingredients:
  vegetable oil,  4 tablespoons (or "as needed")
  black mustard seeds, 1/2 teaspoon

 (when I make this, I mix up 3 or 4 recipes-worth of the following dry spices
 at a time, so I don't have to measure them out every time I make a curry!)

  cinnamon,  1 teaspoon
  cardamom, ground, 1/2 teaspoon

  cumin, ground,  1 1/2 teaspoon
  coriander, ground, 1 1/2 teaspoon
  fennel seeds, ground, 1/2 teaspoon
  turmeric,   1/2 teaspoon
  cayenne,  1/2 teaspoon
  salt,   1 teaspoon

  garlic, minced,  3 cloves
  ginger root, grated 2 teaspoons

  onion, chopped,  1 large

  chickpeas (garbanzos) 1 cup dry
  potatoes, cubed, 3 cups
  tomatoes, chopped, 2 medium


  water,    1 cup

 Possible Garnishes:
  bananas, shredded coconut, toasted cashews, raisins,
  chutney, etc.

 Serve with: basmati rice (or other appropriate grain)

 Soak the chickpeas overnight (or as you normally do).  Chickpeas from a can
 are fine too, and quicker.

 Heat the oil in a skillet (I start with a couple of tablespoons, then
 add a little more if it gets too dry along the way). Add the mustard
 seeds and heat them until they start to pop.* Add the rest of the
 spices and cook on low for a couple of minutes. Add the onions and
 saute until translucent.**

 Add the potatoes and chickpeas, stir them, and cook a few more minutes. Add
 the water, cover the pan, and simmer for about 20 minutes, stirring
 occasionally.

 The potatoes should be tender but not completely cooked now.  Add the tomatoes,
 stir, and cover for another 10 or 15 minutes.

 Serve with rice and garnish as desired.

 ======
 Notes:

 *   A word to the wise: cover the skillet during this step; those mustard
     seeds can fly! "New Recipes" considers the mustard seeds optional; they
     seem to provide much of the hotness of this recipe.


 **  This is misleading because you've just coated the onions with a
     yellow-brown spice mix, and you're more perceptive than I if you can see
     that they're translucent through all that! You just have to know what
     the _texture_ of translucent onions is like; they will soften and slide
     around more than the raw onions.

================================================================================
 From: prabhag@nicolle.iaims.bcm.tmc.edu (Prabha Ganapathy)
 Date: 11 Nov 1991 15:57:02 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Chickpeas and Blackeyed Peas
 References: <khat8hINNa8p@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Reply-To: prabhag@nicolle.iaims.bcm.tmc.edu (Prabha Ganapathy)
 Keywords: recipe vegan chickpeas blackeyed peas



 > I am looking for meatless main dish recipes using beans as a protein
 > source.  Any and all recipes will be welcome....ovo-lacto okay.

 I have couple of recipes with chickpeas and blackeyes peas. Both of
 which can be eaten with steamed rice or flat breads like pita bread or
 chapattis.

 BLACKEYED PEAS
   1/2 medium onion chopped finly
   1 clove garlic minced

   1/4 inch piece ginger minced
   chopped green chilies (to taste)
   1 can blackeyed peas
   1/2 tespoon cumin seeds
   1/2 teaspoon coriander powder
   1/2 teaspoon cumin powder
   1/4 teaspoon garam masala.
   Salt to taste
   Chopped Cilantro for garnish (optional)
   Fresh ground black pepper

   (1) Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a skillet. Add cumin seeds

   (2) After a few seconds add onion, garlic, ginger and green chilies.
   (3) Cook the mixture till it's golden brown
   (4) Add the can of blackeyed peas, all the spices and salt.
   (5) Bring it to a simmer and let it cook on medium heat for about 5 minutes.
   (6) Add cilantro and black pepper before serving
      (Served over a bed of rice)

 SPICY CHICKPEAS
    1 medium onion minced
    2-3 cloves garlic minced
    1/4 inch piece ginger minced
    2-3 green chillies chopped finely (optional)
    2 medium tomatoes pureed
    1 can chickpeas
    1/2 teaspoon garam masala
    1 teaspoon cumin powder
    1 teaspoon coriander powder
    1/4 teaspoon tamrind paste (available in Indian grocery stores)
    1/2 teaspoon chillie powder (optional)
    Salt to taste
    Thinly sliced green onions for garnish (optional)

    (1) Heat 2-3 tablespoon oil
    (2) Add onion, ginger, garlic and green chillie. Cook till they are
        golden brown.
    (3) Add cumin, coriander and chillie powder.
    (4) Add tomatoes and cook for 5 minutes on medium heat
    (5) Add tamrind paste stir till it dissolves.
    (6) Add chickpeas and 1 can of water.
    (7) Cook covered on low heat till the liquid reduces to half.
    (8) Add the salt and garam masala, cook for a few more minutes
    (9) Garnish with green onions before serving.

 Note: Tastes best if the dish is prepared in advance and the chickpeas
 are allowed to absorb all the spices. May need to add a little water if

 the dish gets too thick. Just add a little water and bring the dish to
 a boil.  Dish is similar to the chickpea dish found in most Indian
 Resturants in US.

 Prabha Ganapathy
================================================================================
 Date: 2 May 90 12:40:05 GMT
 From: warren@mdcbbs.com
 Subject: Recipe-Vegetarian Chili
 I came up with this quic{k and easy recipe for vegetarian
 chili the other night.

 1/2 med. onion, diced

 1&1/2 c. water
 1 can refried beans (watch out for lard)
 1 can tomato sauce
 1 to 1&1/2 T. chili powder
 1 tsp. sugar
 1/2 tsp. garlic powder

 Bring water to boil.  Add onion and cook on med. boil till
 fairly transparent.  Reduce heat to low.  Add remaining
 ingredients.  Stir till beans are smooth and heated, a minute
 or two.  I ate it with a dollop of sour cream and some raw
 diced onion but it is good without any garnish at all.
 I hope you like it,
 Connie

 Date: Tue Oct 30 08:56:46 1990
 From: dircon!uad1031@relay.eu.net
 Subject: VEGAN: Chinese Pickled Garlic & Lime and Garlic Olives

 I noticed a recent(ish) request for a method of making pickled garlic.

 Here's mine, based on a Sunday colour-supplement recipe of a couple of
 years ago. Rice vinegar is obtainable from oriental stores; don't use
 malt or pickling vinegar, it'll obliterate any other flavour.


 Chinese Pickled Garlic
 - ----------------------

         * 6 heads of young garlic
         * 600ml (1 pint) rice vinegar
         * 1 teaspoon salt

         * 1 tablespoon castor sugar
         * A few dried red chilis
         * 2 teaspoons green peppercorns

 Break up the heads of garlic, and top-and-tail the cloves, but don't
 bother to peel them. Place them in a bowl, and blanch with boiling
 water; leave for a few minutes, then drain.

 Meanwhile, dissolve the salt and sugar in the vinegar. Pack a pint jar
 with the garlic, add peppercorns and chilis, and pour over the vinegar.
 Leave to cool, then seal tightly.

 Notes:
   - Leave for 6 months before trying !!
   - The skin will peel very easily.
   - Don't use unprotected metal lids on your jars (unless you *like*
     aqueous solutions of metal salts..... :-)


 While on the subject of pickles, here's a recipe (from the same source)
 for olives....

 Lime and Garlic Olives
 - ----------------------

         * 225g (8oz) black olives
         * Juice, zest and peel of 3 limes
         * 1 head of garlic

         * 1 tablespoon whole coriander
         * Olive oil

 Drain the olives, and place them into a half-pound pickling jar.
 Roughly grind the coriander and heat in in a few tablespoons of oil for
 a minute. Take the zest of two limes and the peel from the third, and
 add to the oil with the juice of all three limes. Thinly slice the
 garlic, add it to the oil, saute briefly, and pour over the olives.
 Fill with more oil to cover, then seal and leave for a month before
 eating.

 Julian


================================================================================

 Date: 23 Feb 91 18:26:41 GMT
 From: riacmt@ubvmsa.cc.buffalo.edu (Carol Miller-Tutzauer)
 Subject: VEGAN: Chinese Steamed Buns

 For those of you out there that would like to make stuffed, steamed
 buns in a matter of minutes, you can use biscuit dough -- the stuff
 that comes already made into biscuits in round tubes found in the
 refrigerated foods section near the butter, eggs, & cheese.  Pop open
 the tube, take a biscuit, gently flatten it somewhat especially around
 the edges, glob a bit of filling into the center, close the biscuit up
 around the filling, and twist to seal.  Steam in your bamboo steamer
 for 10-20 minutes (depending on the type of filling -- i.e., cooked vs.
 raw meat, veggie, sesame, etc.).

 For the REAL thing, however, here is a dough recipe adapted from Madame
 Wong's Long Life Chinese Cookbook:

  -------------------
  Buns (Basic Recipe)
  -------------------

 1 package dried yeast or 1 cake fresh yeast
 1 cup lukewarm water
 4 1/2 cups flour
 1/4 cup sugar
 2 tablespoons Crisco or vegetable oil
 1/2 cup boiling water
 2 tablespoons sesame oil (dark Oriental kind)

 Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water.  Add 1 cup of flour.  Mix
 thoroughly.  cover with cloth.  Let rise 1 hour, until bubbles appear.

 Dissolve sugar and vegetable oil in 1/2 cup boiling water.  Stir well.
 Cool until lukewarm.  Pour into yeast mixture.  Add 3 1/3 cups flour.

 Knead dough on lightly floured board until smooth.  Put into extra

 large greased bowl in a warm place.  cover with damp cloth.  Let rise
 until double in bulk, about 2 hours.

 Divide into 2 portions.  Remove first portion and knead 2 minutes.
 Repeat with second.  Roll each into a roll 12 inches long and 2 inches
 wide.  Cut into 12 pieces (24 total).

 Flatten each piece with palm of hand.  Roll with rolling pin into
 3-inch circles.


 Brush with sesame oil.  Indent middle of circle with chopstick.  (At
 this point, add filling if desired.)

 Close dough around filling (if using); otherwise fold circle in half so
 that it becomes a half moon then crimp edges tightly with a fork.

 Place each bun on separate square piece of foil (or waxed paper) on
 steamer tray.  Cover tray with towel.  Let buns rise to double in bulk,
 about 30 minutes.  Remove towel.

 Steam tightly covered over briskly boiling water for 10 minutes.

 (May be prepared in advance.  May be frozen.  Thaw out in plastic bag
 and re-steam 10 minutes.)

 *******************************************************************
 Carol.


================================================================================
 From: kupstas@cs.unc.edu (Eileen Kupstas)
 Date: 20 Sep 91 13:38:10 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Chocolate Cake
 Keywords: recipe vegan/chocolate-cake


 This make a good devil's food type cake. Note that the recipe is for 1 layer.

 Eileen

 Chocolate Cake
 (adapted from Peg Bracken's _I Hate to Cook Book_)

 1-1/2 cups sifted flour
 3 tbls. cocoa
 1 tsp. baking soda
 1 cup sugar

 1/2 tsp. salt
 5 tbls. cooking oil
 1 tbls. vinegar
 1 tsp. vanilla
 1 cup cold water

 Use 9x9x2 pan.

 Mix dry ingredients. (This can be done in the baking pan itself.) Add wet
 ingredients and mix with spoon until nearly smooth.  Bake at 350 (F)
 for 1/2 hour.

================================================================================
 From: srips@emx.utexas.edu (P.S.Sriram)
 Date: 24 Jul 91 08:07:03 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: South Indian Coconut Rice
 Keywords: recipe vegan/coconut-rice


 Hi!

 I saw your posting and I know of a South-Indian dish, very traditional

 sort of fitting your description, that is called Coconut rice.

 Recipe follows:

 1) Making of seasoning powder:

 First take about 10-15 red chillies, a teaspoon of Thania(Celantro)
 seeds, Channa dal ( I am sorry that all names are Indian, you can
 probably get these in any Indian Grocery store) and fry them in a pan
 with very little oil. Add some Asfotedia for aroma. Put about 2 table
 spoons of channa dal.( I forgot the quantity earlier). Then grind them
 coarsely on a blender, remember the channa dal should not be in whole
 pieces.) Keep this aside for garnishing.


 2) Take a freshly broken coconut and grate them up for about 2 cups.

 3) Cook white rice in a cooker, add less water than actually written in
 the instructions. Cook about 4 cups of it, add 6 cups of water to it. I
 prefer Adolphus brand Long Grain white rice.

 4) In a frying pan put about 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil and heat

 it.  Put some mustard seeds and let it burst, then add a little
 turmeric powder.  To this add 1 teaspoon of Channa Dal and Urad Dal and
 fry till golden yellow.  Add some finely split red chillies and green
 chillies as required.  Then add in the grated coconut and stir for
 about 10 secs. Then add the rice to this mixture away from the fire and
 mix thoroughly. Add salt to taste.  Add 2 teaspoons of seasoning
 mixture to the rice and stir.  If you could lay your hands on some
 coconut oil add a teaspoonful for aroma.  Garnish with some freshly cut
 Celantro leaves and some bay leaves.

 5) This is ready to be served with chips or pickle as side dish.  Or
 you can make come chatni by grinding finely some coconut with green
 chillies and celantro with water for consistency. Add salt to taste.


 PS:
 Add 1 teaspoon of chilli powder when frying the items if you could not make
 the seasoning powder.
 Reduce the number of chillies used if you want it to be less hot.
 Reduce the amount of oil initially while frying if you want it less fattening.


 Try this recipe and let me know the results.

 Bye.

================================================================================
 Date: Wed, 12 Jun 91 16:27:27 GMT
 From: dfw@needle.bellcore.com (Doris Woods)
 Subject: VEGAN: Cold Strawberry/Banana Pie


 V2153A%TEMPLEVM@pucc.PRINCETON.EDU (Eleanor Cicinsky) writes:

 >I'm looking for some good cold recipes for strawberry pies. They can
 >contain cream cheese.




    I make a strawberry/banana pie thats very simple.

  2 Bananas sliced
  1 1/2 qt strawberries sliced
 (reserve at least 2 of the biggest ones for garnish)
  Graham cracker crust
  Strawberry Glaze

 To save time I usually buy the crust and the glaze.  But you can get
 the recipe for the crust off the back of a graham cracker box.  As far
 as the glaze goes maybe someone on the net has a recipe for this.  I
 just find it easier to use it from the store.  It's mostly made of
 sugar. It can usually be found next to the Strawberries.

  Start with the bananas and layer them on the bottom, then layer the
 strawberries on top.  Continue doing this until the pie is full.

  Pour the glaze on top so it covers the pie and the fruit on the bottom
 is covered.  For a small pie just 1 jar of glaze for a large one 2.

   Refrigerate for 5-6 hours. Garnish with the strawberries and serve
 with whipped cream.

     Variation:

    Add sliced Kiwi as a third layer.

   It is a very refreshing summer treat!

  Doris


================================================================================
 From: ut-emx!srips@emx.utexas.edu (P.S.Sriram)
 Date: 28 Jul 91 21:10:24 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Coriander Chutney
 References: <2891B03D.6965@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan/coriander-chutney
 Message-ID: <2899C46A.0668@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>



 RECIPE: Coriander Chutney.

 This is a very simple recipe to make the chutney.

 Things needed: 1 coconut- shelled and grated, 1 bunch of Coriander,

 10-15 Green chillies, 1 tablespoon channa dal, salt to taste, mustard
 and a teaspoon of channa dal and urad dal to be fried separately and
 sprinkled over the chutney as garnishing.

 First fry the 1 tablespoon of channa dal with 1-4 red chillies over a
 slow fire till the dal becomes golden brown.

 Then let it to cool a while and add all the other ingredients to it
 and grate it in a blender with water for consistency.

 Add the garnishing after the chutney is kept in a bowl.

 Thats it folks. Simple isn't it.


 P.S.Sriram
================================================================================
 From: "Yashodhara P. Pawar" <yp02+@andrew.cmu.edu>
 Date: Mon, 29 Jul 91 13:36:34 -0400 (EDT)
 Subject: VEGAN: Coriander Chutney
 Keywords: recipe vegan/coriander-chutney2
 Message-ID: <289B2457.1961@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>



 Ingredients:

 1 bunch Coriander (also called Chinese Parsley)
 1 bunch Mint leaves
 3 Green chillies (In the groc. store, these are in the Hot Pepper section)
 1/2 t salt
 1/2 t sugar
 2 t lemon juice
 1 medium onion
 3 T Freshly grated coconut (maybe skipped if not available, but PLEASE,
 do not substitute dry coconut thingummy )

 Procedure:

 Separate leaves of coriander and mint from the stalks. Coarsely chop
 the chili. Add chopped onion and blend all this in a blender till
 smooth.Add the rest.  This is HOT! You may reduce the chilli, but then
 again, why eat the chutney at all!

 Yashodhara


================================================================================
 From: Wendy Campbell <WCAMPBEL@vma.cc.nd.edu>
 Date: Sunday, 24 Nov 1991 13:58:18 EST
 Subject: VEGAN: Cranberry Salad
 References:  <kifo43INN2q2@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan cranberry salad

 trwagner@silver.ucs.indiana.edu says:

 >What I would like to know is, what are your favorite recipes for
 >Thanksgiving and for ANY holiday.  I plan to fix a turkey breast.  But,
 >I would like to get recipes for side dishes, deserts, variations of
 >what or how to cook the turkey etc.

 Try this--it is always a hit around here:

 CRANBERRY SALAD

 1 bag cranberries-fresh or frozen
 2 large oranges-unpeeled
 2 large apples-unpeeled
 1 lb. shelled pecans

 With grinder or food process or grind all (not too fine) and mix thouroughly.
 I serve this "as is" but sugar may be added it the taste suits you better.

  Wendy wcampbel@vma.cc.nd.edu
================================================================================

 From: mlb@lager.cisco.com (Marcia Bednarcyk)
 Date: Tue, 16 Jul 1991 23:56:42 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Cucumber Salad
 References: <2882FE42.3B1D@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe VEGAN
 Message-ID: <288DAC3F.57EE@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>



 steve@yogi.hsc.ucalgary.ca writes:

 >Does anyone have any receipes for vinegar based potato salads?  How
 >about German cucumber salads?

 I don't know if it's German, but one of my favorite cucumber salads is

 to take thinly sliced cucumbers and onions (separate into rings) and
 let them sit in a "dressing" of vinegar (plain old white vinegar), some
 water, and a pinch of sugar. (No, no amounts. As long as there's enough
 to cover all the cucumbers and onions.) Let sit an indefinite amount of
 time in the refrigerator, from 10 minutes to overnight. Enjoy.

 This is supposed to be on the very sour side.

 Marcia Bednarcyk          mlb@cisco.com

================================================================================
 From: reddy@mips.com (T.S. Reddy)
 Date: 6 Aug 91 19:33:11 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Curried Mushrooms
 Keywords: recipe vegan/curried-mushrooms


 Here is a recipe I created by combining others that I had. It turned
 out to be pretty good, so I though I'd share it with others.


                 CURRIED MUSHROOMS



           1 Lb     mushrooms, sliced fine.
    1 cup  peas
    1 med sized onion
    3 med sized tomatoes
          6-8    cloves
    1 1/2" stick  cinnamon
    6-8  green cardomoms
    2-3  red peppers
    1/2 tblspoon pepper
    1/2 tblspoon turmeric
    1/2 tblspoon red chili powder
    1/2 tblspoon  crushed ginger
    1/2 tblspoon crushed garlic
    1   tblspoon  salt (tailor to taste).
    5   tblspoons vegetable oil


 Grind the cloves, cinnamon, cardomoms, red peppers, pepper in a spice
 mill. Puree the onion and set aside. Cut the tomatoes into small pieces.


 Bring the oil to medium heat in a pan. Add the ginger and garlic and

 fry for 3 minutes. Next add the onion puree, ground spices as well as
 the pepper and turmeric, mix well and fry for another 5 minutes. Add
 the tomatoes and cook until the tomatoes turn soft. Now add the
 mushrooms and peas and stir well. Mix in a cup of water, turn the heat
 to medium low and simmer for about 15 minutes.

 Garnish with cilantro and serve.

 Total preparation and cooking time is about 45 minutes.

 T.S.Reddy (e-mail: reddy@mips.com)

================================================================================
 Date: 7 Apr 91 06:24:14 GMT
 From: scp@cs.arizona.edu (Sean C. Purcell)
 Subject: VEGAN: Dahl


 I don't know how close this will be to what you ate at your friend's
 party, but this is what I make and eat as dahl.  Cheap, and good too!

 Dahl

 2 tsp tumeric
 1 tsp cayanne
 2 tsp paprika
 1 tbsp cumin
 1 cup red lentils, washed
 1 medium onion, chopped fine
 4-5 cloves garlic, minced
 oil

 Boil lentils in water with tumeric, cayanne, and paprika.  Meantime,
 sautee onions and garlic in more oil than necessary, stir in cumin.
 Add to lentil mixture, cook to a thick paste.  Serve warm or cold with
 a flat bread, like pita, tortillas, or lavash.

 Note:  you may want to adjust the spices depending on how hot you like
 your food (e.g. 1 tsp cayanne may be too hot, I usually use ~ 1/2
 tsp).  I've also seen other recipes for this, in places like the
 Moosewood cookbooks, which call for coconut milk and a few different
 things.  Enjoy...

  --Sean



================================================================================
 Date: Mon, 03 Jun 91 19:12:44 GMT
 From: tonse@csa1.lbl.gov (Shaheen Tonse)
 Subject: VEGAN: Dahl


 Here is an additional recipe for Dahl, which I feel obliged to share
 with you all since several people tell me it is the best dahl they have
 ever had.  Anyway....

 Ingredients:  1.5 cups masoor dahl (orange in colour).
   Vegetable oil
   3 dried red peppers

    1 tsp mustard seed   (tsp = teaspoon)
   0.25 tsp asafoetida
   1 medium onion
   1.5 tsp coriander powder
   0.5 tsp turmeric powder
   salt to taste.

 Put dahl in about 3 cups water and let boil. It normally takes about an
 hour for the dahl to break up and pulp, however what I do is to start
 soaking it in water before I leave for work. This way it takes much
 less time to cook when boiled later. (gas, electricity SAVINGS!!)

 Spice Mixture: (To be added when dahl is about 80% cooked or even
 earlier if you like) Slice the onion into thin slices. Heat the oil in
 a frying pan, when hot, add red chilies and mustard seeds. After seeds
 pop, add the asafoetida, and immediately turn down the heat. Add the
 onions, start frying on low heat until they are "transparent", then
 turn up heat until they are quite brown, but not burnt black. Add
 coriander & turmeric and turn down heat. After a minute, add about 0.5
 cup of the boiling dahl mixture to the frying pan and stir
 energetically so that the spice mixture gets mixed well, and onions
 break up.


 Pour it back into the dahl pot, add salt, cook for another 10 minutes
 or until dahl is done, whichever comes later.

 Eat with rice, and tastes good with Patak's Garlic Pickle or Patak's
 Prawn Balichow on the side.

       Enjoy,
       Mr. Patak. (just kidding).


================================================================================
 From: astels@fsd.cpsc.ucalgary.ca (astels)
 Date: 19 Jul 91 15:52:36
 Subject: VEGAN: Dahl
 References: <288496FC.018C@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe VEGAN
 Message-ID: <2891BBAF.6C28@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>


 boris@monsoon.Berkeley.EDU (Boris Chen) writes:

    I bought a bag of lentils and don't know what to do with them.  Can
    anyone suggest some easy recipes, preferably something with curry?


 One of my favorite lentil dishes is Dahl, I boil equal amounts of brown
 rice and (green) lentils with 2.5 times as much water, an onion, and
 whatever spices I feel like (curry is especially good) for ~45mins.
 This is good served hot with some steamed veggies or as a bases of a
 non-meat loaf.  If you have red lentils I would suggest using white
 rice since the cooking times would match better.

 I also use lentils homemade soups since they don't have to be soaked
 overnight.

 Kate Astels
 astels@cpsc.ucalgary.ca


================================================================================
 Subject: VEGAN: Dal and Achar
 References: <kki98bINNlo8@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>
 Keywords: recipe vegan dal achar



 Here are two basic recipes:

 Basic cooked dal
 ================

 Use about 1/2 cup dal per person; you can make lots and freeze some.
 Spread dal on a dishtowel and sort over for pebbles.  Some imported dal
 is really dirty.  Place in colander and rinse well.  Set in a bowl of
 water to soak for at least half an hour or as long as overnight.

 Saute chopped onion in some oil; use about 1/2 - 1 onion per cup of
 dal.  Add finely grated ginger (1 tsp or more per cup of dal) and
 pressed or chopped garlic (at least 4 cloves per cup of dal--I use
 more). Saute about one minute, then add dal, some tumeric, some salt,
 and lots of water.  Simmer until dal is very tender--cooking time will
 vary.  The resulting mixture should have the thickness of thick, lumpy
 gravy (sounds yummy, huh?).  If you like, after the dal is all cooked,
 add a *tiny* amount of tamarind concentrate.

 The dal is, and is supposed to be, not all that spicy.  It usually
 accompanies a spicier dish.  For simplicity, you can serve it with just
 spicy pickles and rice.


 Achar (peppered radish)
 =======================

 Ingredients:
 Daikon radish
 cooking oil
 salt
 tamarind
 yellow mustard seeds
 cumin seeds
 tumeric
 red pepper (cayenne or crushed red pepper)

 Wash daikon radish and cut into big french-fry shapes.  In a large pan,
 heat a small amount of oil. When hot, add a couple of tablespoons of
 yellow mustard seeds.  These will start to crackle and pop.  Let them

 pop for about 30 seconds, and then add a couple of teaspoons of cumin
 seeds.  These will crackle too; watch carefully to see that they don't
 burn.  Lower heat slightly and add radish, a sprinkling of tumeric, a
 very small amount of water, a dash of red pepper, a little salt, and
 quite a bit of tamarind.  I use about a tablespoon for a couple of
 pounds of radish--we make this in quantity.  Stir until ingredients are
 well mixed.  Cook until radish is just heated, but still very crisp.
 Radish should not be limp or soggy.  Serve hot or cold.  Yes, you eat
 the seeds, too.

 My husband says you can make potatoes this way too, but the potatoes
 need to be cooked all the way through.  I would pre-cook them in the
 microwave to speed things up.


 I selected these recipes because I think the techniques and spicing
 fairly are representative.  The cook-seeds-in-oil trick is common, as
 is the garlic-onions-ginger mixture.

 Don't be shy with the spices, but be aware that black pepper gets
 hotter as it cooks longer, and too much tumeric can make food bitter.

================================================================================
 Date: Wed, 10 Apr 91 11:38:22 GMT
 From: jorice@maths.tcd.ie (Jonathan Rice)
 Subject: VEGAN: Deal's Californian Salsa



 Lastly, here is a great recipe for salsa sauce which I got from a
 Californian friend of mine (Lynne Deal) recently.

                        DEAL'S CALIFORNIAN SALSA
                       --------------------------


 4 *large* tomatoes - *ripe*, peeled, seeded + chopped (see below)
 1 tablespoon seeded, finely chopped *hot* peppers
 2 tablespoon finely chopped fresh cilantro
 1 small red onion, finely chopped
 1 large clove garlic, finely chopped
 1 teaspoon red wine vinegar (or lemon juice)
 1 teaspoon salt

 To peel tomatoes, immerse in boiling water for *less* than 1 minute,
 then plunge into ice water and the skin will slip off. Squeeze out seeds,
 chop.

 Balance of ingredients is according to taste, especially the chilis. Try
 *lots* of cilantro and garlic and add chopped red and green sweet peppers.



================================================================================
 From: dmferrell@happy.colorado.edu
 Date: 5 Aug 91 18:48:23 GMT
 Subject: VEGAN: Diane's Eggplant
 Keywords: recipe vegan/dianes-eggplant


 Here's a recipe that takes some time, but well worth the effort.

 1/2 bushel of hot red peppers
 1/2 bushel of red and green sweet peppers
 1 head garlic (that is the entire head, not one clove and use a very large
 head)
 fresh mint--about a good colandar full--washed and leaves removed from the
 stem
 olive oil
 approximately 1/2 bushel medium to medium large eggplants

 clean and seed the peppers.  clean the paper from the garlic.  wash the
 mint.  remove the leaves from the stems.  Pass the peppers, garlic and
 mint through a meat grinder on medium fine grind.  Set aside.  *they
 will begin to form juice which you should drain before using*.  This


 can be done a day ahead before using and then refrigerated or you can
 do this right before using the mixture.

 wash the eggplants, remove the stem and blossom ends then slice into
 1/2" slices.  Alternately layer the slices of eggplant and canning salt
 on a large drain board--either one with holes in it or one that
 slightly slants.  You don't need too much salt--just sprinkle a little
 bit on each slice.  Then place a large board on top-- large enough to
 cover all the layers of eggplant and place a heavy on top of the board.
 I use an 8 quart pot filled with water.  The eggplants will begin to
 *weep*.  Let them sit like this overnight or about 24 hours.  Remove
 the weight and the board--the eggplants should be pressed thin.  Use a
 paper towel wipe off the excess moisture and salt.

 In a heavy pan, lightly fry each slice in the olive oil.  Don't use too
 much as the eggplant really absorbs the oil.

 In a heavy crock make alternate layers of fried eggplant slices and the
 pepper mixture.  When the crock is about 3/4 full, cover all with a
 good virgin or extra virgin olive oil.  Cover with a lid that will fit
 inside the crock and set a weight on the lid so that a little oil comes
 over the lid.  Store in a cool dark place and they will be ready to eat
 in a few weeks.

 If you would rather not store them in a crock, then alternate the
 layers of eggplant and pepper mixture as before but in a baking dish.
 Place two stacks of eggplants/pepper in a small freezer bag and some

 extra pepper mixture and freeze.  To serve, take them out of the
 freezer about 4-5 hours before using.  Gently pull the pieces apart as
 they thaw.  Then cover with olive oil and a little garlic salt or salt
 and peppers to taste.  They will absorb more oil as they sit.  Add more
 if you wish.

 These are great.  They are tangy but not hot, even when we have used
 peppers that actually caused blisters on our hands when cleaning them.
 They're great as a meat condiment, part of a relish try, mixed with
 tomato slices and used as a salad.  My husband and I like to make
 sandwiches with them and some salami.  If you are looking for a
 different taste, use cider vinegar instead of the olive oil to cover
 the eggplant as this slightly pickles them.  When ready to serve drain
 however many slices you want to use then mix them will a small amount
 of olive oil and some seasonings.  A great salad.

 I'm sorry I'm so vague about how much oil to use or how much mint.  this is
 a very old family recipe, my great-grandmother made these and I'm well over
 40.  We really eyeball the amounts and adjust the garlic and mint according
 to how strong they are.

 I hope you enjoy

 Diane M. Ferrell

================================================================================
 From: radhika@cs.washington.edu
 Date: Fri, 13 Dec 91 00:20:28 -0800
 Subject: VEGAN: Dosai
 Keywords: recipe vegan dosai


 (Verbose, designed to guide the novice through the steps).


 Dosai (South Indian, Pancake-like)
 =====


 Ingredients:

 3 cups of Texas long grain rice
 1 cup of urad dal (available in Indian grocery stores).
    (Buy the polished kind, not the unpolished one with the outer black layer)
 salt to taste (about 2 tsp)

 Method:

 GRINDING:

 Soak the rice and the dal separately, for about 5 hours (soaking longer
 won't hurt, I usually soak it in the morning, go off to work, and grind
 in the evening.) Grind the rice with sufficient water until it is a
 smooth paste. (I use my osterizer and run it in 3 batches, the amount
 of water used to grind is somewhat crucial, using too much will make
 the result too watery, while using too little will make it hard to
 grind and too thick. I usually put in the rice and add water until it
 just reaches the brim of the rice, this will seem like too much, but it
 will work out fine once the rice is ground.  I then run the osterizer
 on MIX until the rice is broken and then run it on LIQUIDIZE until the
 rice starts to become a paste.  If required, add just a little more
 water, perhaps a few tablespoons.  Touch the paste between your fingers
 to feel the texture. It should be smooth).

 Now grind the dal in two batches. (The amount of water here is not as
 tricky. Traditionally this would be ground in a stone grinder by hand.
 The dal needs to be ground while slowly adding more water from the top
 of the osterizer. When ground, the dal has the tendency to fluff up,
 this tendency must be encouraged by adding only a little water at a

 time while stirring and continuing to grind.  The dal should double in
 quantity after grinding, while the quantity of rice would have remained
 unchanged.) Now mix both the pastes with the salt in a dish that is at
 least a third bigger in size, allowing space for the dough to rise.
 (Quite commonly, the dough runs over for me, so I put it in a larger
 dish than worry all night about overflowing dough).  Leave for about 8
 hours in a dark warm place. I usually leave it in the oven overnight
 and occasionally turn the oven on for a minute or two, to keep the air
 inside the oven at a warm temperature.

 COOKING:

 The next morning, if you have done all this, the dough is ready to be
 transformed into dosas. Use a heavy cast-iron griddle (a flat non-stick
 pan will do, but sadly lacks the taste that comes from the iron pan).
 Heat the pan until a few drops of water dropped on the pan sizzles away
 Take a deep ladle full of dough and drop the dough in the middle of the
 pan, then with a deftness that comes with practice, quickly swirl the
 dough away from the middle until it is spread evenly in a circle around
 the pan. You must do this quickly because once the dough cooks, you
 cannot spread it and the result will be lumpy.  Take a teaspoon full of
 oil and spread it around the edge of the dosai.  Wait a minute or so,
 until you see the edges browning and insert a flat ladle that has sharp
 edges under and all around the dosai, until it is released completely

 (Bewarned that, using a well-scrubbed pan won't let you release the
 dosai easily. To prevent this, you might want to rub a little oil onto

 the surface of the pan before spreading the dough.)

 After releasing the dosai, flip it around on the other side and put
 another teaspoon of oil around the edges. Wait a minute or two until
 it is cooked and remove from the pan.

 Before making the next one, use a small piece of paper kitchen towel
 and rub any excess oil off the pan.

 (This whole procedure sounds tedious, but its not too hard after you've
 done it a few times. Incidentally I make dosa every week. The dough
 will keep in the refrigerator for a week or more.  If the dough starts
 to get sour, cut small pieces some green chilis and onion and add to
 the dough before cooking it.  This can be done even otherwise, for a
 different flavor and variety.)

 To eat:

 Break a piece of the dosa and dip it into the dosa-molaga-podi
 or the samber (recipes to follow) and pop it into youir mouth.


 Enjoy. If you do try to make this, send me email if you have any
 further questions.

 radhika (radhika@cs.washington.edu)

================================================================================
 From: radhika@cs.washington.edu
 Date: Fri, 13 Dec 91 00:21:44 -0800
 Subject: VEGAN: Dosai Molaga Podi
 Keywords: recipe vegan dosai molaga podi


 A powdery substance that is traditionally eaten with dosai or idlis.

 Dosai Molaga podi (Literally translated, "Dosai Chili Powder")

 =================

 Ingredients:

 1/2 cup urad dal
 1/2 cup chana dal
 asafoetida (a little)
 tamarind (dry or fry it also) (cannot use the paste)
 1/4 cup coriander seeds to taste ( I found 1/4 cup a little too much,
                                    reduce slightly)
 jaggery (little bit) (molasses?)
 salt (to taste)
 red chillies (to desired taste)
 1/4 cup sesame seed (preferable the white kind)

 Method:

 Fry til in a dry pan, and the others in a little oil separately, until
 red (don't wait until it gets too dark).  Powder all ingredients finely
 and the two dals slightly coarsely and mix all together.  Note on the
 amount of red chilies to use-- I usually fry and grind red chilis
 separately (this needs to be done with sufficient ventilation in the
 kitchen), and then keep adding this to the mixture of the other

 ingredients until desired level of heat tolerance.  I can always use
 any leftover in other recipes that calls for red chili powder.

 Note: This makes a batch that you can keep around for a few months.
       Store in normal air-tight glass bottle or plastic container.

 How to eat the dosai with this:

 Add a little oil to a little podi and mix, the dosa in then dipped into
 this oil-podi mixture, to smear it with this mixture and then popped
 into the mouth. Using the fingers is the preferred way here.  (This is
 not unlike the way the Ethiopian bread Injera is eaten).


 radhika (radhika@cs.washington.edu)

Scott       | No success can compensate for failure in the home. David O. McKay
Mattes      | President 1951-70, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Scott       | No success can compensate for failure in the home. David O. McKay
Mattes      | President 1951-70, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
